WEBVTT

1
00:04:22.950 --> 00:04:23.670
Ian C: Anybody out there.

2
00:04:25.770 --> 00:04:28.200
John Mertic: Hey this is john Martin from Linux Foundation.

3
00:04:28.890 --> 00:04:29.700
Ian C: Oh hi john

4
00:04:30.450 --> 00:04:31.110
John Mertic: Hey how's it going

5
00:04:31.830 --> 00:04:34.470
Ian C: Good. I was wondering if I was connected

6
00:04:34.770 --> 00:04:38.280
John Mertic: You were, you were just sitting here on mute.

7
00:04:45.480 --> 00:04:47.130
Gillian Hannington: Oh, I was on mute. Hi Jill's joined

8
00:04:49.080 --> 00:04:49.380
Ian C: Digital

9
00:04:53.760 --> 00:04:57.090
Ian C: I'm going back on mute. So I can eat my breakfast and silence.

10
00:05:08.220 --> 00:05:16.350
Kip Twitchell: Well, okay, so I'm unmuted. I'm talking white in why you're going on. Eat your breakfast. That would be kind of fun. No, no.

11
00:05:21.540 --> 00:05:25.650
Kip Twitchell: So we have our rooms here. Hello, glad

12
00:05:28.380 --> 00:05:31.230
Kip Twitchell: You're joining a room where are you joining from remind me.

13
00:05:31.680 --> 00:05:35.520
Arun V PRASAD: I'm joining from us and part of the FTP vivante

14
00:05:35.820 --> 00:05:46.620
Kip Twitchell: Great, thanks for inviting me and God energy has joined here to true deep is in Kolkata, I believe if you're joining from their charity.

15
00:05:47.850 --> 00:05:49.410
Kip Twitchell: Glad to have you tried to

16
00:05:54.570 --> 00:05:54.960
Joydeep Banerjee: Morning.

17
00:05:58.140 --> 00:06:00.480
Kip Twitchell: Glad to have you join us. Thanks for joining us.

18
00:06:05.400 --> 00:06:11.070
John Mertic: Alright, hey can't buy Wendy you waiting for a few a few more people are. Wait, what do you

19
00:06:13.080 --> 00:06:16.710
Kip Twitchell: You know, I don't know that it's critical to wait for people. But I thought

20
00:06:17.880 --> 00:06:19.560
Kip Twitchell: We might have a couple more joining

21
00:06:20.280 --> 00:06:21.210
John Mertic: Us to give it another minute.

22
00:06:21.330 --> 00:06:21.660
Or

23
00:06:22.680 --> 00:06:24.510
Kip Twitchell: Yeah, give it just another minute john

24
00:06:28.500 --> 00:06:29.400
Ian C: Rhonda was coming.

25
00:06:29.940 --> 00:06:32.310
Kip Twitchell: I think Randall, I would expect her handle to be on

26
00:06:33.480 --> 00:06:34.080
Kip Twitchell: I think you're right.

27
00:06:39.630 --> 00:06:40.140
Ian C: Zoom.

28
00:06:40.530 --> 00:06:43.920
Kip Twitchell: In interval to our work so far.

29
00:06:48.480 --> 00:06:49.440
Ian C: I'll ping them through

30
00:06:50.550 --> 00:06:51.060
Ian C: Slack.

31
00:06:52.350 --> 00:06:52.680
Kip Twitchell: Good.

32
00:06:59.490 --> 00:07:01.590
Kip Twitchell: He says he's having trouble and soon so

33
00:07:03.540 --> 00:07:05.040
Kip Twitchell: I'll just say no pressure and

34
00:07:08.010 --> 00:07:09.720
Kip Twitchell: He's making an account, I suspect.

35
00:07:11.760 --> 00:07:15.000
John Mertic: There should be also a dial. And I don't know if it was in the invite. But in

36
00:07:15.600 --> 00:07:17.970
John Mertic: A dial and as well. In case he blamed us that

37
00:07:28.470 --> 00:07:29.100
Kip Twitchell: Maybe

38
00:07:31.380 --> 00:07:32.760
Kip Twitchell: I don't know if it's in the invite.

39
00:07:38.010 --> 00:07:38.700
Kip Twitchell: On the

40
00:07:49.260 --> 00:07:49.890
Kip Twitchell: Calendar.

41
00:07:52.380 --> 00:07:54.480
John Mertic: And you know what, I think if

42
00:07:58.020 --> 00:08:12.480
John Mertic: If you click on the in the participants. There's a little button that says invite and then it comes up with this whole gigantic list of people and then you can copy invitation. And in that invitation and we'll have all the islands to if you want to send that to them.

43
00:08:13.410 --> 00:08:16.470
Kip Twitchell: So let's see. I'm in the meeting invite here.

44
00:08:16.740 --> 00:08:25.500
John Mertic: Invite and then there should be a dialogue that comes up with contacts, but at the bottom, there's two links. One of them is copy invite link and copy invitation.

45
00:08:26.670 --> 00:08:31.500
John Mertic: Did you hit the copy invitation should end up being something

46
00:08:36.720 --> 00:08:41.580
Kip Twitchell: That looks like it's making sure that is no i don't think i have

47
00:08:42.000 --> 00:08:46.620
12068498832: Okay, that'll mess joining well randomness is joining so we don't

48
00:08:46.620 --> 00:08:47.490
Kip Twitchell: Need to do that.

49
00:08:47.670 --> 00:08:48.300
12068498832: Alright.

50
00:08:48.660 --> 00:08:53.700
12068498832: Their success. Jim says he's having problems. So I'm going to tell him to get in the same way I did.

51
00:08:54.600 --> 00:08:58.290
Kip Twitchell: Excellent. Whatever the backdoor was that you use Randall would be great.

52
00:08:59.250 --> 00:08:59.550
Yeah.

53
00:09:02.400 --> 00:09:04.620
12068498832: Once we figured out the first time. Hopefully it's easier for

54
00:09:04.650 --> 00:09:08.040
Kip Twitchell: Both so we've got a number of other people that have joined while we've been waiting

55
00:09:10.440 --> 00:09:14.070
Kip Twitchell: We have Mr McCORMICK HAS JOINED from Australia.

56
00:09:14.580 --> 00:09:15.000
Kip Twitchell: I bought

57
00:09:16.170 --> 00:09:16.740
Bob McCormack: It. I kept

58
00:09:18.210 --> 00:09:19.230
Bob McCormack: Me everyone

59
00:09:21.930 --> 00:09:26.460
Kip Twitchell: Thomas fun. I think Thomas you joining us from Asia. So right

60
00:09:27.240 --> 00:09:31.500
Thomas Fung: Yes, hi. Hi, good evening yeah i'm john from HSBC

61
00:09:31.530 --> 00:09:32.370
12068498832: Joining from Hong Kong.

62
00:09:32.790 --> 00:09:34.770
Kip Twitchell: Glad to hear that Thomas. Thanks for joining us.

63
00:09:34.830 --> 00:09:35.370
Thank you.

64
00:09:38.940 --> 00:09:43.740
Kip Twitchell: And Regina, I think, is joining us as well.

65
00:09:45.540 --> 00:09:47.730
Rajdeepsingh RISALDAR: I am joining from HSBC India, we

66
00:09:48.600 --> 00:09:49.950
Kip Twitchell: Were in India, are you

67
00:09:51.540 --> 00:09:53.100
Rajdeepsingh RISALDAR: I'm pretty good.

68
00:09:54.000 --> 00:09:55.080
Kip Twitchell: Excellent today.

69
00:09:57.300 --> 00:09:57.450
12068498832: Good.

70
00:09:58.770 --> 00:09:59.010
12068498832: Yep.

71
00:10:00.180 --> 00:10:03.810
John Mertic: Do we, I guess we're kind of leaning already into introductions. I don't know if we want

72
00:10:03.810 --> 00:10:06.390
John Mertic: To continue and do a little bit of around the room there.

73
00:10:07.140 --> 00:10:07.920
Introductions

74
00:10:09.510 --> 00:10:11.400
Kip Twitchell: That would be good if you

75
00:10:11.790 --> 00:10:15.750
Kip Twitchell: But I see a couple of phone numbers that have joined, so I don't know who exactly

76
00:10:17.100 --> 00:10:22.380
Kip Twitchell: Those are, I think, one might be Randalls four number looks like a 206 is that Washington Randall.

77
00:10:23.100 --> 00:10:23.880
12068498832: Yes that's me.

78
00:10:25.470 --> 00:10:25.710
12068498832: Right.

79
00:10:25.770 --> 00:10:27.210
Kip Twitchell: Randomness joining

80
00:10:28.350 --> 00:10:31.230
Kip Twitchell: And we have a 618 area code.

81
00:10:32.730 --> 00:10:33.240
Kip Twitchell: As well.

82
00:10:33.720 --> 00:10:34.950
Kip Twitchell: It's on me, I will be Jim

83
00:10:35.970 --> 00:10:36.240
12068498832: Jim

84
00:10:36.990 --> 00:10:37.440
Correct.

85
00:10:38.550 --> 00:10:41.580
12068498832: Yeah, let's y'all. Tell them do Star six to unmute Jim

86
00:10:42.660 --> 00:10:43.380
Kip Twitchell: Star six

87
00:10:46.230 --> 00:10:48.180
16185670667: Hey, that sounds like Jim

88
00:10:48.210 --> 00:10:49.050
Kip Twitchell: Holiday chesty

89
00:10:49.980 --> 00:10:53.220
16185670667: Yep. Like, for some reason I can't join the zoom

90
00:10:54.990 --> 00:10:55.770
16185670667: PC.

91
00:10:55.950 --> 00:10:56.640
Kip Twitchell: Tim, it's just

92
00:10:57.210 --> 00:11:01.230
Kip Twitchell: It's it's it's it's just so my personal with you. OK.

93
00:11:05.940 --> 00:11:07.650
Andrea orth: Change over time.

94
00:11:11.280 --> 00:11:15.870
Kip Twitchell: The same old feelings around you. Please come to be insulted Andrea. If you'd like to join our meeting.

95
00:11:18.060 --> 00:11:22.620
Kip Twitchell: And then we have Andrew see you. It's joined. I don't think I welcome to you and

96
00:11:27.540 --> 00:11:30.960
andrew siu: Good evening, everyone. I'm so I'm from hitches. She's in Hong Kong.

97
00:11:31.320 --> 00:11:45.630
Kip Twitchell: Hong Kong. So we've got another person from Hong Kong. Excellent. We've been fortunate here team that that we we didn't have anyone who expressed interest from the UK and joining so we could have this at a more favorable time for all of us.

98
00:11:47.100 --> 00:11:49.680
Kip Twitchell: As opposed to trying to fit in the UK team as well.

99
00:11:50.910 --> 00:11:52.200
Kip Twitchell: So that's pretty good.

100
00:11:53.820 --> 00:11:54.870
12068498832: I think

101
00:11:55.500 --> 00:11:55.860
Just

102
00:11:56.880 --> 00:11:58.650
Kip Twitchell: I think this is probably enough

103
00:11:59.760 --> 00:12:04.470
Kip Twitchell: For US HERE, JOHN, are you going, I don't see sandy person she might

104
00:12:04.470 --> 00:12:05.850
Kip Twitchell: Be joining as well and

105
00:12:06.750 --> 00:12:09.510
12068498832: Some others, but I think we can go ahead and get started here with

106
00:12:10.110 --> 00:12:10.650
Some

107
00:12:11.850 --> 00:12:12.330
John Mertic: Awesome.

108
00:12:12.540 --> 00:12:13.290
John Mertic: Awesome. Well,

109
00:12:14.460 --> 00:12:21.180
John Mertic: Welcome everybody to the kickoff meeting of the Geneva ERS technical steering committee.

110
00:12:21.900 --> 00:12:24.720
John Mertic: I know we did some light introductions between Members.

111
00:12:25.230 --> 00:12:26.520
John Mertic: Of the group already

112
00:12:29.310 --> 00:12:32.610
John Mertic: So maybe we could just kind of, you know, start to kick into

113
00:12:34.050 --> 00:12:37.020
John Mertic: The sort of getting a little bit information and I'm going to

114
00:12:37.020 --> 00:12:38.370
John Mertic: apologize ahead of time.

115
00:12:38.970 --> 00:12:41.700
John Mertic: The kickoff meeting is very procedural

116
00:12:42.540 --> 00:12:48.060
John Mertic: It is the least talking about technology and the technology of any meeting, we will have

117
00:12:48.660 --> 00:12:55.890
John Mertic: The good news is, after this, you'll get to hear less for me and you'll be able to have more technical discussions on the project.

118
00:12:56.670 --> 00:12:57.990
John Mertic: You know, so really this eight

119
00:12:58.020 --> 00:13:01.890
John Mertic: Years to get things kicked off, get the infrastructure going get a cadence of meetings.

120
00:13:03.180 --> 00:13:05.310
John Mertic: And to get things sort of pointed in the right direction.

121
00:13:05.790 --> 00:13:07.260
John Mertic: So really,

122
00:13:08.310 --> 00:13:12.210
John Mertic: About five key things on the agenda. We've already knocked off one of just welcoming

123
00:13:12.210 --> 00:13:12.840
Everybody

124
00:13:14.100 --> 00:13:15.840
John Mertic: You know, we have another item here is a sort of

125
00:13:15.870 --> 00:13:18.720
John Mertic: Talk about the purpose and what the role of the technical steering

126
00:13:18.720 --> 00:13:19.710
John Mertic: Committee is

127
00:13:20.850 --> 00:13:22.980
John Mertic: This per very much presuming

128
00:13:22.980 --> 00:13:23.670
That this is

129
00:13:24.720 --> 00:13:25.410
John Mertic: A new

130
00:13:26.160 --> 00:13:27.840
John Mertic: You know body that many of you have ever

131
00:13:27.840 --> 00:13:30.450
John Mertic: Participated in it sounds like number of you are also

132
00:13:30.480 --> 00:13:32.820
John Mertic: Two degree we knew and participating in open source as

133
00:13:32.820 --> 00:13:33.300
Well,

134
00:13:34.950 --> 00:13:42.810
John Mertic: And so we'll try to spend a few minutes of orienting to that. And I'm also very happy. For those of you who might need some guidance or questions or things like that.

135
00:13:42.810 --> 00:13:45.780
John Mertic: To answer questions or even take them offline.

136
00:13:46.950 --> 00:13:51.690
John Mertic: We're going to look to kind of a line at a potential chairperson.

137
00:13:52.260 --> 00:13:53.910
John Mertic: And a secretary

138
00:13:54.090 --> 00:13:55.530
John Mertic: And we'll talk about both of

139
00:13:55.530 --> 00:13:56.700
John Mertic: Those roles.

140
00:13:56.850 --> 00:14:00.090
John Mertic: Of what they are. I will ask us, we're going

141
00:14:00.090 --> 00:14:09.120
John Mertic: Through here. If somebody maybe wants to take the duty for this first meeting of taking notes of the meeting. And again, this doesn't have to be.

142
00:14:09.900 --> 00:14:12.090
John Mertic: Anything of congressional quality here.

143
00:14:12.570 --> 00:14:17.730
John Mertic: It's really, we just want to capture who attended some of the key talking points actions and things there.

144
00:14:19.260 --> 00:14:24.360
John Mertic: So I don't know if somebody maybe wants to take that on for the the first meeting here of the group.

145
00:14:28.440 --> 00:14:29.250
Kip Twitchell: Good john

146
00:14:29.640 --> 00:14:31.470
Bob McCormack: This is Bob by can do that if you like.

147
00:14:31.950 --> 00:14:32.430
John Mertic: Awesome.

148
00:14:32.490 --> 00:14:33.720
John Mertic: Awesome. Thank you so much, Bob.

149
00:14:36.690 --> 00:14:37.620
12068498832: Um, yeah.

150
00:14:37.650 --> 00:14:48.360
John Mertic: That would, that would be great. Um, we'll go through just sort of a little bit in the infrastructure side, I think we have a lot of this together, Kip is doing a great job and working with a number of you.

151
00:14:48.420 --> 00:14:50.070
John Mertic: Have just sort of going through sort of the full

152
00:14:50.070 --> 00:15:04.770
John Mertic: Checklist of items of getting infrastructure and transition going. And so we'll take a quick pass at we're at fat and then we went to touch on the cadence of these meetings and just sort of determine where that fits with the group.

153
00:15:05.880 --> 00:15:08.160
John Mertic: And depending upon if there's other time allotted

154
00:15:08.340 --> 00:15:08.880
12068498832: Um,

155
00:15:08.970 --> 00:15:10.050
John Mertic: You know, certainly.

156
00:15:10.440 --> 00:15:13.110
John Mertic: You know, Kip if whoever if we want to dig into any

157
00:15:13.350 --> 00:15:14.790
John Mertic: Technical items of the project.

158
00:15:15.630 --> 00:15:22.860
John Mertic: Yeah, certainly we can we can grab some time for that as well. Excellent. That sounds good. For today, everyone. Any, any questions on this.

159
00:15:22.920 --> 00:15:23.430
12068498832: Agenda

160
00:15:24.060 --> 00:15:24.540
12068498832: I think

161
00:15:24.780 --> 00:15:27.120
Kip Twitchell: John you're the expert on how we should run our first

162
00:15:27.120 --> 00:15:28.980
Kip Twitchell: Meeting. So I'm I'm fully on board.

163
00:15:29.010 --> 00:15:30.330
Kip Twitchell: With what you're doing so great.

164
00:15:31.590 --> 00:15:36.060
John Mertic: Awesome. Awesome. Well, thank you so much. I appreciate the vote of confidence here.

165
00:15:37.560 --> 00:15:40.260
John Mertic: And yeah, this is, this is the number 13

166
00:15:41.280 --> 00:15:51.450
John Mertic: Project TASC we've got going here and the open mainframe project. So I think kip you did the blog post on it. Y'all are lucky number 13 so the entire project is

167
00:15:51.450 --> 00:15:52.860
John Mertic: Very, very excited.

168
00:15:54.120 --> 00:15:55.560
John Mertic: We have a meeting of the open mainframe.

169
00:15:55.560 --> 00:15:56.910
John Mertic: Project Governing Board.

170
00:15:57.510 --> 00:15:59.580
John Mertic: Which is sort of the business end of

171
00:15:59.790 --> 00:16:03.450
John Mertic: The overall Foundation, which are going to be really excited about.

172
00:16:03.450 --> 00:16:04.440
John Mertic: The progress of

173
00:16:04.500 --> 00:16:05.700
John Mertic: Already getting out of the gate here.

174
00:16:05.730 --> 00:16:15.450
John Mertic: So what's there and kick into the really a purpose and what the role of the TASC is in T IC stands for technical steering committee.

175
00:16:16.710 --> 00:16:24.240
John Mertic: And within the concept of an open source project and, at least the ones that we have here within the Linux Foundation and they're similar.

176
00:16:24.570 --> 00:16:25.950
John Mertic: Sorts of bodies.

177
00:16:26.700 --> 00:16:28.320
John Mertic: You know, you might see an other

178
00:16:29.010 --> 00:16:31.320
John Mertic: Technical communities or other foundations that

179
00:16:31.320 --> 00:16:36.540
John Mertic: Host projects as well. Generally speaking, this is sort of the core group of

180
00:16:36.690 --> 00:16:38.490
People within the project.

181
00:16:39.630 --> 00:16:40.140
12068498832: That

182
00:16:40.170 --> 00:16:47.790
John Mertic: Are the leaders and leaders in a sense of being able to help set direction within the

183
00:16:47.790 --> 00:16:49.530
John Mertic: Community, I'm

184
00:16:49.680 --> 00:16:54.900
John Mertic: help resolve issues, concerns that are happening within the Community.

185
00:16:56.040 --> 00:17:04.740
John Mertic: Health be supportive of the community, you know, whether that would be people who are just downstream users, whether that'd be people who are looking to contribute in some way.

186
00:17:06.240 --> 00:17:21.690
John Mertic: You know, and so on and so forth. And the TSA also gets in the space of helping mediate any issues or anything sensitive that might come up within the community as well. So think of this group is sort of a lot of the final arbitrator.

187
00:17:23.010 --> 00:17:26.070
John Mertic: We see a good TASC generally is one that is

188
00:17:26.160 --> 00:17:27.810
John Mertic: Looking to be in lockstep with their

189
00:17:27.810 --> 00:17:29.040
John Mertic: Community and

190
00:17:29.310 --> 00:17:31.200
John Mertic: Be in a supportive role so sort of

191
00:17:32.430 --> 00:17:40.680
John Mertic: Less of what what my knee might use the terminology of like a dictator escrow but it's it's really one of those people know

192
00:17:40.800 --> 00:17:42.930
John Mertic: The ins and outs of the community, they

193
00:17:42.990 --> 00:17:45.390
John Mertic: They know the constituents that really care about.

194
00:17:45.390 --> 00:17:45.840
John Mertic: This

195
00:17:46.110 --> 00:17:47.400
12068498832: They have connections within the

196
00:17:47.400 --> 00:17:48.420
12068498832: Key vendors and the

197
00:17:48.420 --> 00:17:52.260
John Mertic: Key users that are taking this stuff into production and they're

198
00:17:53.010 --> 00:17:53.940
John Mertic: Here to

199
00:17:54.690 --> 00:18:03.750
John Mertic: Be an advocate on that. Well, but also understand of what needs to drive forward for the overall success of the community I'm technical steering committees are open to anybody.

200
00:18:04.650 --> 00:18:13.680
John Mertic: They are not closed meetings. Typically, occasionally, and very rarely, actually, we see a TLC meeting closed and that's usually because there's a very sensitive issue that's coming to play.

201
00:18:14.970 --> 00:18:23.970
John Mertic: But largely speaking. They're very open to the community and generally we actually see a lot of people that are often looking to get involved in the project the TASC meeting is a great first

202
00:18:23.970 --> 00:18:26.220
John Mertic: touch point for them. Um,

203
00:18:26.310 --> 00:18:28.860
John Mertic: So never feel worried about driving new

204
00:18:28.860 --> 00:18:30.120
John Mertic: People to this meeting and

205
00:18:30.120 --> 00:18:35.040
John Mertic: Worried that you might scare them off. You know, it's actually a really good touch point for getting people things going

206
00:18:36.540 --> 00:18:44.400
John Mertic: Myself from a staff perspective. I'm here to support this group, I tend to we tend from the Linux Foundation.

207
00:18:44.820 --> 00:18:50.880
John Mertic: Really be here as a facilitating support role. We want the community to be able to take the lead and ownership of the direction

208
00:18:51.420 --> 00:19:00.780
John Mertic: And we're here to help support the activities around it help resolve any concerns that may be come up that the TLC has questions about

209
00:19:01.620 --> 00:19:12.720
John Mertic: Along with also anything on a legal aspect or even a governance aspect, you know, we're able to help get involved to ensure that the project is ran in a

210
00:19:13.440 --> 00:19:28.140
John Mertic: fair, equitable and vendor neutral fashion. Um, so all of you, and many of you I know have been tapped to be initial members of the TASC and that just really means you have a voting right to seize typically don't vote in a lot of things. So

211
00:19:29.310 --> 00:19:31.980
John Mertic: You know, for those of you aren't it's, you know, certainly not.

212
00:19:32.040 --> 00:19:35.070
John Mertic: A concern, you know, definitely doesn't feel like

213
00:19:35.640 --> 00:19:37.170
John Mertic: You know of any any worry about us.

214
00:19:37.620 --> 00:19:39.840
12068498832: This is definitely still an opportunity to stay engaged with the

215
00:19:39.840 --> 00:19:41.550
John Mertic: Project and be a part of these meetings and

216
00:19:42.000 --> 00:19:42.660
John Mertic: Find ways to

217
00:19:42.690 --> 00:19:44.100
12068498832: Support and oftentimes we

218
00:19:44.100 --> 00:19:47.310
John Mertic: TLC sort of admin flow and grow and over time.

219
00:19:48.150 --> 00:20:01.200
John Mertic: And I'll pause there probably rattle on a little bit about what the TSA is all about. I know this is probably a new to many of you. So I want to just open the floor here for any questions on how things typically work.

220
00:20:02.010 --> 00:20:13.020
Kip Twitchell: John maybe I could add in since you've been tutoring me over the last month, just a little bit about what you've said the the TASC typically with the

221
00:20:13.530 --> 00:20:15.060
Kip Twitchell: Open Source community starts with

222
00:20:15.180 --> 00:20:24.300
Kip Twitchell: Matters right people who have the authority to update the code and commit code to a repository is kind of a key point in

223
00:20:24.690 --> 00:20:25.260
Kip Twitchell: In any sort

224
00:20:25.320 --> 00:20:28.410
Kip Twitchell: Of open source community that you gain respect and are trusted

225
00:20:29.040 --> 00:20:38.610
Kip Twitchell: by your peers to be able to update code. And so, you know, kind of, as we've been organizing this over the last month we're evaluating

226
00:20:39.630 --> 00:20:51.720
Kip Twitchell: We're starting from position of who has that ability to update the code today because the code is sensitive and we want to make sure we we treat it with respect and so. But as you've been coaching us right

227
00:20:51.810 --> 00:20:54.780
Kip Twitchell: We are fully committed. So most of the people.

228
00:20:54.930 --> 00:20:57.030
Kip Twitchell: That can update coach today really

229
00:20:57.510 --> 00:20:59.790
Kip Twitchell: Are IBM employees, but we're fully committed

230
00:21:00.420 --> 00:21:07.800
Kip Twitchell: To this becoming an open source community. And so as we have participants growing in their participation.

231
00:21:08.340 --> 00:21:19.290
Kip Twitchell: And their ability to to to participate in add code and have that code respected and and gain the respect of the community to update will be looking to

232
00:21:20.010 --> 00:21:28.650
Kip Twitchell: Grow who is on the, the committee and such for controlling the organization. We're excited. Let me just say, I guess, on behalf of myself and

233
00:21:29.370 --> 00:21:41.970
Kip Twitchell: And the genie. The ERS people historically. I'm excited to have all of you here. This is a great step. I think a lot of energy is flowing in the team we've already have a number of people participating over the last few weeks.

234
00:21:42.480 --> 00:21:42.990
12068498832: And actually,

235
00:21:43.290 --> 00:21:46.170
Kip Twitchell: month and a half. Now, some even before we accepted as a

236
00:21:46.530 --> 00:21:57.780
Kip Twitchell: Incubation project and standing previous case join him in the project. So it's just exciting to to be here with you all, and and running TONIGHT. THANKS FOR JOINING US. JOHN thanks for hosting us. It's great.

237
00:21:58.980 --> 00:22:02.490
John Mertic: Absolutely. Yeah, thanks for thanks for adding a lot of those bits in there.

238
00:22:04.680 --> 00:22:13.620
John Mertic: Any other questions from the group on you know the TASC while you're all here today, sort of what your roles are as a part of the community.

239
00:22:21.210 --> 00:22:32.040
Kip Twitchell: You know john I might say a comment about what might be a question which I don't quite know how to answer myself yet, you know, we have, we do have customers that are using

240
00:22:33.000 --> 00:22:34.770
Kip Twitchell: saffery Geneva ers.

241
00:22:35.400 --> 00:22:46.800
Kip Twitchell: And, you know, we're quite grateful to have you joining here with us and we're looking for feedback from you how you'd like to participate and what your roles would look like it.

242
00:22:47.310 --> 00:22:59.670
Kip Twitchell: Perhaps you're not looking to update code, specifically, but will be, you know, certainly, you're a key piece of this whole process. And so that's one thing that I think will be exploring

243
00:23:00.360 --> 00:23:02.040
Kip Twitchell: How do our, our

244
00:23:02.070 --> 00:23:08.730
Kip Twitchell: Customers representatives and such join in this this group and what roles do they take them wherever they want to

245
00:23:08.730 --> 00:23:09.420
Kip Twitchell: Take have

246
00:23:09.480 --> 00:23:10.800
Kip Twitchell: How do they want to participate.

247
00:23:19.890 --> 00:23:22.950
Kip Twitchell: Any other comments, I think maybe we're all one

248
00:23:24.720 --> 00:23:25.230
John Mertic: Yeah.

249
00:23:26.940 --> 00:23:31.710
John Mertic: And certainly if there's things that come up over after the meeting, you can always feel free to reach out to

250
00:23:32.010 --> 00:23:33.240
12068498832: Myself or kip or both of

251
00:23:33.240 --> 00:23:34.140
John Mertic: Us or anybody

252
00:23:34.620 --> 00:23:36.570
John Mertic: Or even on the mailing list that I think a number of

253
00:23:36.570 --> 00:23:38.130
John Mertic: Purity subscribe to answer.

254
00:23:38.520 --> 00:23:40.230
John Mertic: We're happy to answer any questions.

255
00:23:41.190 --> 00:23:42.210
Or things as they come up.

256
00:23:45.060 --> 00:23:45.960
John Mertic: So let's

257
00:23:46.050 --> 00:23:48.300
John Mertic: Let's move forward here.

258
00:23:48.390 --> 00:23:54.930
John Mertic: In the next item chairperson in Secretary role. Um, and these are two really important roles for the project.

259
00:23:56.400 --> 00:23:58.560
John Mertic: The, the chairperson role.

260
00:23:59.700 --> 00:24:02.430
John Mertic: You know as ends up being very to factor the lead of the

261
00:24:02.430 --> 00:24:03.210
Project

262
00:24:04.770 --> 00:24:24.060
John Mertic: within our communities. We see the biggest thing that project leads are there to do is to really serve the community and and help ensure that we're the community and everybody from contributors competitors, you know, downstream users and other TASC members.

263
00:24:25.080 --> 00:24:27.660
John Mertic: You know, seeking value the projects going sort of the general

264
00:24:27.720 --> 00:24:38.310
John Mertic: Direction, they're looking for, you know, there's certainly a lot of the TLC chair is there to help also lead the mediation have any concerns or questions or issues that come up

265
00:24:38.310 --> 00:24:39.330
12068498832: Within the community.

266
00:24:40.110 --> 00:24:53.010
John Mertic: I tend to work very closely with the TASC chair on this project strategy and helping with any guidance that I can on the best practices within open source and kind of getting a community off the ground.

267
00:24:54.990 --> 00:24:57.030
John Mertic: This person also will lead these meetings going

268
00:24:57.030 --> 00:25:02.520
John Mertic: Forward, which is a positive thing. Did you get here, less of me and you get to hear more of this person.

269
00:25:03.840 --> 00:25:12.780
John Mertic: And and certainly this usually the TC chairperson really works very closely with the community to make sure the topics discussed here. I'm very useful.

270
00:25:13.890 --> 00:25:20.790
John Mertic: We also work with the chairperson as really the spokesperson for the community. So as we would look to talk about the

271
00:25:20.790 --> 00:25:22.500
John Mertic: Project publicly so

272
00:25:23.430 --> 00:25:38.070
John Mertic: You know, for example, will be doing a news announcement at our open source summit event in September, if it's if that's hopefully, that is an event that is on your radar. I'll do my due.

273
00:25:38.070 --> 00:25:39.780
John Mertic: Diligence here and drop a link into

274
00:25:39.780 --> 00:25:45.540
John Mertic: The chat here momentarily. So you can learn a little bit more about it. Um,

275
00:25:47.040 --> 00:25:55.230
John Mertic: So we would use this person is basically any spokesperson for the project in you know any sort of outbound communication or messaging.

276
00:25:55.560 --> 00:25:58.860
John Mertic: That we would do such as, you know, press releases, things like

277
00:25:58.860 --> 00:26:03.840
John Mertic: That blog post. Anytime there would be folks that are interested in talking more about the

278
00:26:03.840 --> 00:26:04.590
John Mertic: Project

279
00:26:05.070 --> 00:26:07.530
John Mertic: You know, this is sort of the point person that we would work with

280
00:26:08.550 --> 00:26:09.960
John Mertic: You know, from that perspective.

281
00:26:10.650 --> 00:26:13.020
John Mertic: Oftentimes we do CTS V chairs will get other people in the

282
00:26:13.020 --> 00:26:17.820
John Mertic: Community involved. You know, they tend not to want to have all the burden themselves, but they, they tend to

283
00:26:17.820 --> 00:26:18.960
John Mertic: Really pass that around.

284
00:26:19.830 --> 00:26:33.660
John Mertic: Um, electing a chairperson. Um, can have very variable term limits each community we sort of leave it to them to figure out what makes sense. Some groups, choose sort of a period to

285
00:26:33.690 --> 00:26:35.250
Reevaluate or reelect

286
00:26:36.360 --> 00:26:39.930
John Mertic: Some basically say, you can be the chairperson until you're done doing it.

287
00:26:40.830 --> 00:26:42.000
John Mertic: You know others.

288
00:26:42.690 --> 00:26:47.430
John Mertic: Might have other sort of mechanisms we sort of leave it to the community to sort of figure out those details.

289
00:26:48.090 --> 00:26:58.470
John Mertic: I guess I say that of in if anybody who is interested or if there's interest for anybody for be the tsu chairperson. It's not like something you're be signing up for the rest of your life for

290
00:26:59.580 --> 00:27:07.680
John Mertic: Their input you know there are others can can step up and take charge that way. So that's the one role. And then the second role is the secretary role.

291
00:27:08.040 --> 00:27:13.980
John Mertic: We have some projects that choose to have a dedicated secretary and basically their biggest role is

292
00:27:15.240 --> 00:27:18.030
John Mertic: compiling the minutes in notes.

293
00:27:18.060 --> 00:27:19.050
John Mertic: For a meeting.

294
00:27:19.380 --> 00:27:22.380
John Mertic: distributing them out, ensuring that

295
00:27:23.430 --> 00:27:25.320
John Mertic: You know any of the action items are well

296
00:27:25.350 --> 00:27:27.300
John Mertic: You know, established and then also working

297
00:27:28.440 --> 00:27:34.650
John Mertic: in any capacity with the chairperson, to make sure that the agenda and stuff for TLC meetings are out there.

298
00:27:35.160 --> 00:27:46.530
John Mertic: We have some projects that have a dedicated person do this. We have a lot of other projects that basically have it as a round robin so the chair just kind of starts at the beginning of the mini meeting just like I did, and

299
00:27:46.530 --> 00:27:46.860
12068498832: Said,

300
00:27:47.160 --> 00:27:49.530
John Mertic: Who wants to take notes and that person's on point to do

301
00:27:49.530 --> 00:27:49.740
It.

302
00:27:50.760 --> 00:27:52.890
John Mertic: It doesn't really matter. I think each project likes to work a little

303
00:27:52.890 --> 00:27:58.110
John Mertic: Differently. There's pros and cons of both approaches. Some people really like to take notes so projects. Don't stop them.

304
00:27:59.520 --> 00:28:02.070
John Mertic: So anyways, I'll pause there um

305
00:28:02.550 --> 00:28:05.310
John Mertic: Any questions you might have in that. And also, if

306
00:28:06.480 --> 00:28:08.610
John Mertic: If you all have any interest in

307
00:28:09.300 --> 00:28:14.280
John Mertic: You know anybody in specific that you would want to look to serve and either one of these roles.

308
00:28:20.130 --> 00:28:22.680
12068498832: I nominated kip Twitchell for chair.

309
00:28:26.010 --> 00:28:27.660
John Mertic: I will say that we were not entirely

310
00:28:27.660 --> 00:28:29.760
John Mertic: Surprised by such a nomination coming through.

311
00:28:31.440 --> 00:28:37.170
Kip Twitchell: Randall was my boss for a number of years. So I don't know how I feel about being nominated by Randall, but

312
00:28:41.550 --> 00:28:42.690
Andrea orth: No one else was looking at

313
00:28:43.650 --> 00:28:44.070
Yeah.

314
00:28:48.870 --> 00:28:51.900
John Mertic: Anyone else have any nominations, or anybody else who's going to kind

315
00:28:51.900 --> 00:28:54.480
John Mertic: Of come on top, you know, pile on top of that.

316
00:28:56.880 --> 00:28:57.270
Ian C: Go for it.

317
00:29:02.430 --> 00:29:03.600
Kip Twitchell: Sounds like that's a second

318
00:29:03.840 --> 00:29:06.510
John Mertic: Day I sounds like that's a second I

319
00:29:06.540 --> 00:29:11.610
John Mertic: Do I hear sort of a unanimous that that kip is the TLC chairperson to kick things off.

320
00:29:14.400 --> 00:29:15.480
John Mertic: Yes, yes.

321
00:29:15.510 --> 00:29:16.110
16185670667: Yes, I hear

322
00:29:16.200 --> 00:29:18.120
John Mertic: I hear the chats coming through. Awesome.

323
00:29:18.270 --> 00:29:18.810
Awesome.

324
00:29:20.250 --> 00:29:21.720
John Mertic: Well well congratulations.

325
00:29:21.720 --> 00:29:25.050
John Mertic: Kip, you are the TLC chairperson, the inaugural one

326
00:29:25.170 --> 00:29:37.170
John Mertic: Um, I will leave it to the group decided to fake determine the cadence of where they would run a reevaluate this. It's not as the decision. Everyone has to make today but you know some projects, choose to re evaluated on a

327
00:29:37.440 --> 00:29:38.730
John Mertic: periodic basis so

328
00:29:39.240 --> 00:29:40.050
John Mertic: I will leave it to that.

329
00:29:41.250 --> 00:29:42.630
Kip Twitchell: I'm committed for a week.

330
00:29:42.870 --> 00:29:44.070
Kip Twitchell: John so

331
00:29:47.340 --> 00:29:50.220
John Mertic: Hey you know what that that works. That works.

332
00:29:51.030 --> 00:29:53.850
John Mertic: Awesome. Well, thank you so much for keeping congratulations.

333
00:29:54.600 --> 00:29:56.940
John Mertic: You know, on being elected amongst your peers.

334
00:29:57.390 --> 00:30:06.780
John Mertic: Nothing. I'm from a secretarial point of view, if there's someone who's really interested in doing this role on a permanent or, you know, a long standing basis.

335
00:30:08.040 --> 00:30:14.040
John Mertic: Definitely step forward and another option is if the project just wants to rotate around these duties on a meeting by meeting basis.

336
00:30:21.090 --> 00:30:22.890
Kip Twitchell: I could I could return the

337
00:30:23.070 --> 00:30:25.650
Kip Twitchell: Favor Andrea, there was speaking

338
00:30:25.950 --> 00:30:28.470
Kip Twitchell: Andrew, would you be willing to serve as our Secretary

339
00:30:28.980 --> 00:30:29.610
Andrea orth: Afraid you

340
00:30:34.560 --> 00:30:34.890
Andrea orth: Know,

341
00:30:35.850 --> 00:30:37.260
Andrea orth: Fair Play and all that.

342
00:30:38.880 --> 00:30:39.360
Kip Twitchell: Yeah.

343
00:30:40.590 --> 00:30:42.990
John Mertic: That'd be fun. Awesome. Sure.

344
00:30:43.050 --> 00:30:43.530
John Mertic: Awesome.

345
00:30:43.620 --> 00:30:48.660
John Mertic: Thank you so much. Andrea and congratulations for being selected, and I'm sure here's

346
00:30:50.820 --> 00:30:55.920
John Mertic: A great. Awesome. Alright, well, we are we are rocking through this agenda here I'm

347
00:30:56.640 --> 00:30:58.530
John Mertic: Hip. I don't know if you have handy, where the

348
00:30:58.530 --> 00:31:02.640
John Mertic: Checklist on the transition infrastructure. I don't know if you have that handy and maybe you can

349
00:31:02.700 --> 00:31:03.060
12068498832: Do

350
00:31:03.360 --> 00:31:03.750
In and

351
00:31:05.040 --> 00:31:07.290
Kip Twitchell: I can share I'm disabled from sharing

352
00:31:07.470 --> 00:31:07.830
12068498832: Oh,

353
00:31:07.920 --> 00:31:10.260
12068498832: I probably need to give access to you for that.

354
00:31:15.210 --> 00:31:16.620
John Mertic: Hopefully you guys have access now.

355
00:31:18.330 --> 00:31:19.740
Kip Twitchell: Looks like good. Awesome.

356
00:31:20.820 --> 00:31:35.130
John Mertic: So for context here. So this is a checklist that we provide a lot of new projects to kind of help guide them through all of really the action items from the point of the Technical Advisory Council accepting them as an incubation project.

357
00:31:35.520 --> 00:31:36.810
John Mertic: To graduation.

358
00:31:37.740 --> 00:31:39.630
John Mertic: And you know, we find kind of having a

359
00:31:39.900 --> 00:31:42.120
John Mertic: Sort of something we've started to put in our last few

360
00:31:42.120 --> 00:31:48.690
John Mertic: Projects that we've launched and it's been a really useful tool to help sort of guide folks through the process and just really get

361
00:31:48.750 --> 00:31:49.770
12068498832: A lot of the

362
00:31:49.980 --> 00:31:51.570
John Mertic: key pieces together here.

363
00:31:52.590 --> 00:31:57.300
John Mertic: And this is also up in the Geneva ERS Community Github it's

364
00:31:57.360 --> 00:31:59.250
John Mertic: Under the TLC repository.

365
00:31:59.880 --> 00:32:06.120
John Mertic: Under the file readme. So you can definitely check where we're all of that sits there.

366
00:32:07.200 --> 00:32:09.060
John Mertic: As I'm sort of scanning this here.

367
00:32:09.960 --> 00:32:16.650
John Mertic: It sounds like. Again, a lot of the big things are really got underway. Here, you know, the contribution policies.

368
00:32:16.650 --> 00:32:20.970
John Mertic: And things like that had been aligned on. I don't know. Kip if if

369
00:32:21.120 --> 00:32:22.290
John Mertic: Members of the TSP have

370
00:32:22.290 --> 00:32:26.670
John Mertic: Had a chance to review a lot of those to this point.

371
00:32:26.940 --> 00:32:27.390
Kip Twitchell: Or other

372
00:32:28.080 --> 00:32:33.330
Kip Twitchell: Okay, probably not. And that would be a good thing to do. JOHN has to kind of going through this. So,

373
00:32:33.660 --> 00:32:35.550
Kip Twitchell: Just again to restate friends.

374
00:32:37.410 --> 00:32:40.110
Kip Twitchell: We are we, we have under GitHub, we have what's

375
00:32:40.110 --> 00:32:41.460
Kip Twitchell: Called an organization.

376
00:32:42.030 --> 00:32:47.850
Kip Twitchell: Geneva ERS is an organization that has multiple repositories under it. For those of you that are new.

377
00:32:48.660 --> 00:32:50.370
Kip Twitchell: To get hub and how that works.

378
00:32:50.850 --> 00:33:05.310
Kip Twitchell: Are our community organization was the first one created and and it basically is administrative documents for that we have, you know, basic readme starting point for understanding the organization.

379
00:33:06.720 --> 00:33:10.140
Kip Twitchell: we've outlined a, a, an initial

380
00:33:13.260 --> 00:33:18.000
Kip Twitchell: Governance document and contribution, how to contribute.

381
00:33:19.530 --> 00:33:25.200
Kip Twitchell: We have been working on List of repositories that we

382
00:33:26.100 --> 00:33:28.260
Kip Twitchell: We are planning to use

383
00:33:28.890 --> 00:33:40.650
Kip Twitchell: And these are list of people that are updating repositories today that that own source code today and their access to those. So all of that is is work that's

384
00:33:41.730 --> 00:33:56.340
Kip Twitchell: Underway under this right and then happy to have comments back at one good way to comment back is an issue if there's something you see that should be changed if there's a spelling error. Happy to have you.

385
00:33:57.900 --> 00:34:09.840
Kip Twitchell: Take a fork of the project and and correct spelling errors and submit that back to a pull request because this is an open source community. You have the right to to suggest changes to any of these things.

386
00:34:11.880 --> 00:34:24.150
Kip Twitchell: So we'd love to have you. You do that we are planning to use GitHub for the for the the tooling and we've we've established the mailing list that you joined in order. There is a Slack channel.

387
00:34:24.810 --> 00:34:35.610
Kip Twitchell: For open mainframe, I guess maybe if I were to actually go briefly to make this clear as well. We have created a homepage.

388
00:34:36.750 --> 00:34:58.170
Kip Twitchell: Geneva ers.org and there's some activities listed here training about museum historical documents about safir as it was known in IBM before IBM is Geneva ers. And there's a number of things that you can do to get connected to the to the Slack channel here on that as well.

389
00:35:00.270 --> 00:35:14.340
Kip Twitchell: So I think, you know, I don't know that we'll go through that and a lot of detail here john and got more to do on that one other thing that I probably do want to show is that we have

390
00:35:15.630 --> 00:35:21.390
Kip Twitchell: We've made, we kind of have two initiatives that we've been working on the last few weeks.

391
00:35:22.770 --> 00:35:33.060
Kip Twitchell: GV be live is the first repository where we've actually put out source code. Our first set of source code is a module called

392
00:35:35.130 --> 00:35:36.120
Kip Twitchell: Which is a

393
00:35:37.140 --> 00:35:53.520
Kip Twitchell: It's an IO routine. It's a Geneva Ohio handler that can be used outside of Geneva we planning to add other small routines here, but this is our first our first set of source code that actually is out.

394
00:35:54.810 --> 00:36:10.110
Kip Twitchell: Out on on the committed to the repository and the the open source. So use freely, if you have, if you want to read and look learn assembler, you've got all all you need to do there.

395
00:36:10.920 --> 00:36:21.270
Kip Twitchell: Another place that we're working more actively in in the code is changing more rapidly, we hope will be changing more rapidly is under the spark PRC

396
00:36:22.650 --> 00:36:24.420
Kip Twitchell: You're trying to

397
00:36:25.860 --> 00:36:38.190
Kip Twitchell: Demonstrate kind of to the community, how Geneva relates to Apache Spark. There's some similarities that we found between those things and some things that we might do to

398
00:36:38.730 --> 00:36:44.910
Kip Twitchell: more tightly integrate those even in the opening tech meeting from from the open mainframe project, a month ago.

399
00:36:45.390 --> 00:36:57.750
Kip Twitchell: Some of the questions immediately were about Apache Spark and Geneva's relationship to it. So this is a place where we're running some some work Daily Scrum calls Monday through Thursday at

400
00:36:59.130 --> 00:37:10.680
Kip Twitchell: 4pm Central Time us on on seeing if we can show to people how to how Geneva relates to spark. So those are our two repositories right now.

401
00:37:11.730 --> 00:37:17.730
Kip Twitchell: Andrea has been and Sandy previous helping us with the spark PLC primarily on that.

402
00:37:18.750 --> 00:37:31.530
Kip Twitchell: Andrea orth is also working with another repository will be building, which is the the documentation and the resource repository resources for the install scripts and dB to database definition.

403
00:37:32.040 --> 00:37:42.990
Kip Twitchell: And GCM sample ACL and the documentation database might initially contain a Getting Started Guide for the

404
00:37:44.250 --> 00:37:52.770
Kip Twitchell: For using Jimmy BRS and we're working in a certain sense to try to get ready as john said for the

405
00:37:54.060 --> 00:38:03.540
Kip Twitchell: For the open mainframe summit in the middle of September, we'd like to have some things that we can demonstrate we've done as part of that process. Okay.

406
00:38:05.310 --> 00:38:15.780
Kip Twitchell: One more thing before I pause there for a moment just to make it clear at the bottom of this checklist and we still have things to do here like hold we

407
00:38:16.890 --> 00:38:35.250
Kip Twitchell: Need to work on on a project logo and and some of those things. But, and that's part of our marketing steps that need to go on, but I want you to be aware, we're an incubation project right now, not a active stage project we have

408
00:38:36.510 --> 00:38:43.890
Kip Twitchell: The open mainframe project, as I understand it from john would like to see projects move to an active status within about a year.

409
00:38:44.580 --> 00:39:01.410
Kip Twitchell: Of having started and to make an active status. We have to complete these steps. So these are kind of our longer term goals for the project, from my perspective, complete the proposal process to become an active, we have to have competitors from multiple organizations.

410
00:39:03.030 --> 00:39:08.040
Kip Twitchell: We have to have achieved a core infrastructure initiative, best practices badge.

411
00:39:08.850 --> 00:39:23.490
Kip Twitchell: And we have to we've done our project governance and committee process, but of course we need some feedback on that. After tonight's meetings and refine those over time, we need to have a public List of project adopters.

412
00:39:24.540 --> 00:39:26.760
Kip Twitchell: Of at least one of our primary repos.

413
00:39:27.990 --> 00:39:34.320
Kip Twitchell: Code licensing scan and we're doing this as we do that. Put the code into the repositories.

414
00:39:35.460 --> 00:39:43.920
Kip Twitchell: We have to elect to a project leader to represent us on the attack when we become an active project and we have to get a super majority vote from the task.

415
00:39:44.550 --> 00:39:56.790
Kip Twitchell: To become an active stage project. So those are kind of our longer term goals. The will be working as a community here to turn our check into an active project.

416
00:39:59.880 --> 00:40:00.570
Kip Twitchell: I'll pause

417
00:40:02.340 --> 00:40:06.000
Kip Twitchell: Comments, questions, anything from

418
00:40:07.170 --> 00:40:08.520
Kip Twitchell: That side of things.

419
00:40:10.380 --> 00:40:14.640
Kip Twitchell: John any comments you'd make on on how any of the how we're doing what we should

420
00:40:16.050 --> 00:40:17.100
Kip Twitchell: What we should be focusing

421
00:40:17.460 --> 00:40:26.970
John Mertic: Yeah, no, I think you're thinking about things definitely all the right way and and I would encourage everyone to sort of review through some of the contribution policies and things of that nature.

422
00:40:29.040 --> 00:40:38.850
John Mertic: And, you know, once I think the, you know, get familiar with it, and maybe at the next meeting might even be a good opportunity just to kind of dig more if people have any questions or obviously

423
00:40:39.630 --> 00:40:49.500
John Mertic: Any of those. We can also help answer any future meeting of the the technical steering committee as well. So definitely don't

424
00:40:50.820 --> 00:41:06.480
John Mertic: Do not hesitate to ever reach out to ask questions about any of how the governance processes and things that work and also what any of the implications might be for your organization, being able to participate, you know in in that light as well.

425
00:41:08.310 --> 00:41:23.280
John Mertic: We're always happy to to advise in any way their shape or form. Um, yeah, I mean, I think, you know, very much a lot of the low hanging fruit. You know that I that I think will be really helpful for the community is honestly just kind of some very

426
00:41:24.750 --> 00:41:34.080
John Mertic: Simple bits like kind of getting a logo Troy chosen, which I know can always be one of the more challenging things for a tech but

427
00:41:35.190 --> 00:41:35.790
John Mertic: I think

428
00:41:36.960 --> 00:41:41.730
John Mertic: You know, the, I think getting some of that together might be, you know, very helpful.

429
00:41:43.080 --> 00:41:50.130
John Mertic: You know, outside of that, um, you know, I think, otherwise the progress is really beginning to start to move forward really well and

430
00:41:50.670 --> 00:42:00.840
John Mertic: Yeah, I think, I think there's progress they're going, and I think it looks like kip you brought up some of the logo concepts that were shared over the Slack channel.

431
00:42:01.380 --> 00:42:03.510
Kip Twitchell: Yeah, so I was going to go there.

432
00:42:03.750 --> 00:42:14.520
Kip Twitchell: John because I think of getting ready for the open mainframe project summit next month. Right. This is a place where we want to have

433
00:42:15.720 --> 00:42:21.570
Kip Twitchell: Our, our project added as part of the the open mainframe project.

434
00:42:22.920 --> 00:42:23.760
Kip Twitchell: Landscape.

435
00:42:26.190 --> 00:42:28.230
12068498832: And so we want to make sure that we get to

436
00:42:29.010 --> 00:42:34.290
Kip Twitchell: The not going to try to type that now, but so this is part of doing that.

437
00:42:35.520 --> 00:42:40.710
Kip Twitchell: I know there's been some discussions and we haven't really had it in a, in a, it's been more one off.

438
00:42:40.770 --> 00:42:42.330
Kip Twitchell: Sort of discussions, I'd like to

439
00:42:42.990 --> 00:42:45.930
Kip Twitchell: Encourage people to be adding as a thread here.

440
00:42:46.260 --> 00:42:47.430
Kip Twitchell: In the Slack channel.

441
00:42:48.150 --> 00:42:49.320
Kip Twitchell: So in in the

442
00:42:49.590 --> 00:42:52.110
Kip Twitchell: Open mainframe slack workspace.

443
00:42:52.620 --> 00:43:08.970
Kip Twitchell: There's a Geneva ERS channel and if you, you know, make a thread comment on this or some ideas here. We've had john just so you're aware there's been a couple of comments about that the Logos nice but

444
00:43:10.200 --> 00:43:17.070
Kip Twitchell: People weren't too thrilled with the down arrow of the logo. So we might want to think about rather than going down.

445
00:43:18.390 --> 00:43:24.630
Kip Twitchell: A direction. That's a bit more positive and down this kind of one of the comments that I've heard back but

446
00:43:26.310 --> 00:43:29.460
Kip Twitchell: Those that's one space that I think we do need

447
00:43:31.440 --> 00:43:32.820
12068498832: Comments back on the team.

448
00:43:33.240 --> 00:43:35.730
Kip Twitchell: To get this settled over the course of the next few weeks.

449
00:43:36.180 --> 00:43:50.220
John Mertic: Yeah, absolutely. And any, any feedback you have, you know, please let us know. I mean, our design team kind of takes a little bit of a stab in the dark to get things going. And, you know, tries to help you know if he wants to be very responsive to the community as a

450
00:43:50.250 --> 00:43:53.820
John Mertic: Whole so yeah I mean, any, any feedback you have

451
00:43:54.600 --> 00:44:02.610
John Mertic: You know when you're ready. I'm happy to take any of that. Also, back to our designers. If you have sort of specific design points and they can do another rehberg logos.

452
00:44:03.420 --> 00:44:04.320
John Mertic: As a part of it.

453
00:44:06.000 --> 00:44:10.350
Kip Twitchell: I'd be great, any comments on that from anyone on the call Prince.

454
00:44:11.460 --> 00:44:17.400
Kip Twitchell: This is a community call guys I done my spill. It's time to step up and contribute here.

455
00:44:18.930 --> 00:44:19.770
Ian C: Yeah.

456
00:44:21.450 --> 00:44:24.330
12068498832: I'm sorry, go ahead and let's go. Go Randall.

457
00:44:25.350 --> 00:44:37.410
12068498832: I was going to say, Kip I intended to take that Slack channel discussion and turn it into a thread today and paste in another idea for a logo and then

458
00:44:38.310 --> 00:44:49.020
12068498832: Put in everybody's references there so that they would get notified, but I didn't get a chance to do that today. But I'm hoping to do that tomorrow, and I'll paste in my my sample group archetype. Excellent.

459
00:44:51.360 --> 00:44:52.500
Kip Twitchell: And you were gonna say something

460
00:44:53.850 --> 00:44:54.120
Ian C: Yeah.

461
00:44:54.180 --> 00:44:55.740
Ian C: Not regarding the logo.

462
00:44:57.180 --> 00:44:58.110
Ian C: In terms of

463
00:44:58.800 --> 00:45:00.120
Ian C: Committing etc.

464
00:45:00.360 --> 00:45:02.340
Ian C: Do we need to sign a

465
00:45:02.460 --> 00:45:05.220
Ian C: Committed agreement, like we do an Apache or whatever.

466
00:45:05.700 --> 00:45:06.360
Kip Twitchell: Yeah, so

467
00:45:06.630 --> 00:45:10.140
Kip Twitchell: When you sign off on the chronic community, our

468
00:45:10.290 --> 00:45:12.270
Kip Twitchell: Our process for signing off.

469
00:45:12.300 --> 00:45:19.830
Kip Twitchell: Is that you do basically agree on your contribution. So it's a fairly simple thing that you do.

470
00:45:20.100 --> 00:45:22.770
Kip Twitchell: As part of if you do I get commit

471
00:45:23.070 --> 00:45:29.190
Kip Twitchell: Dash s that signs off and says you are you are doing it to

472
00:45:29.400 --> 00:45:30.480
12068498832: Develop a certificate of

473
00:45:30.630 --> 00:45:40.230
Kip Twitchell: Origin for your contributions to the to the project. And so that's the very simple way of doing it.

474
00:45:40.500 --> 00:45:41.310
Kip Twitchell: You're going to

475
00:45:41.820 --> 00:45:44.100
Kip Twitchell: Your code base should have a simple

476
00:45:44.850 --> 00:45:45.840
Kip Twitchell: Copyright

477
00:45:46.050 --> 00:45:48.030
Kip Twitchell: If you want to put a copyright holder years

478
00:45:48.090 --> 00:45:49.410
Kip Twitchell: And if you include this

479
00:45:50.160 --> 00:45:50.790
Kip Twitchell: This little

480
00:45:51.240 --> 00:45:52.500
Kip Twitchell: Label right here.

481
00:45:52.920 --> 00:46:04.710
Kip Twitchell: That says that your source code is eligible to be used under the Apache 2.0 license. So our project Are all of our junior ERS projects is a working under the patching 2.0 license.

482
00:46:06.210 --> 00:46:09.990
Ian C: Sure, yeah. Okay, I just, I seem to remember

483
00:46:12.960 --> 00:46:19.800
Ian C: There was some sort of legal thing about being a member of the project. It'll least the wasn't Apache, but

484
00:46:21.060 --> 00:46:23.070
Ian C: I talked about how the Linux Foundation does things

485
00:46:23.400 --> 00:46:25.560
John Mertic: Yeah, I can. I can jump in there.

486
00:46:26.700 --> 00:46:26.820
John Mertic: Are

487
00:46:27.300 --> 00:46:35.220
John Mertic: Many of our projects we tend to be very agnostic, of how projects wish to approach contribution sign off.

488
00:46:36.540 --> 00:46:37.410
John Mertic: We're

489
00:46:38.100 --> 00:46:40.080
John Mertic: The plurality of open mainframe.

490
00:46:40.140 --> 00:46:42.240
John Mertic: Hosted projects have been and actually

491
00:46:42.540 --> 00:46:45.150
John Mertic: We've generally seen this trend in most of our communities.

492
00:46:45.630 --> 00:46:56.550
John Mertic: Is they leverage the developer certificate of origin which kip a described. But basically, and you can kind of read a little bit more about it.

493
00:46:57.870 --> 00:47:00.450
John Mertic: If you go to developer

494
00:47:01.590 --> 00:47:02.790
developer certificate

495
00:47:04.560 --> 00:47:06.450
John Mertic: Yeah, if you go to developer certificate org

496
00:47:08.460 --> 00:47:17.400
John Mertic: The link in the chat here for everyone, but basically this is the same, you know, mechanism that is used within the Linux kernel community as well.

497
00:47:18.330 --> 00:47:29.430
John Mertic: And the sign off process that Cuba described in is also linked to in our contribution process. Basically, it happens on each committee and as you being the author

498
00:47:30.450 --> 00:47:40.500
John Mertic: There's, there's really three things you end up certifying to, you know, one is that you're the one who you the contribution was created in whole or in part, and you have the right to submit it or

499
00:47:41.280 --> 00:47:52.380
John Mertic: We are you got it from. You have the permission to do it or comes under a work that is under the same open source license or one that you know is being able to submit

500
00:47:52.950 --> 00:48:00.960
John Mertic: And then the final part of it is that you understand your contribution is public, and it will be a record of the contribution in definitely

501
00:48:01.830 --> 00:48:04.050
John Mertic: Which is is useful.

502
00:48:04.080 --> 00:48:09.180
John Mertic: You know, for a mechanism that was put together in the early aughts is is became very useful from a legal aspect.

503
00:48:09.180 --> 00:48:09.960
12068498832: With things such as

504
00:48:09.990 --> 00:48:11.670
John Mertic: GDPR that has come up so

505
00:48:12.780 --> 00:48:16.530
John Mertic: Within a lot of our projects. This is sort of the mechanism we use, it's actually

506
00:48:16.830 --> 00:48:25.680
John Mertic: Tends to be a rather large trend. We also see within the industry, the probably the mechanism that you're referring to is what's called contributor license agreements.

507
00:48:26.280 --> 00:48:33.060
John Mertic: And typically, you know, they can have additional terms and pieces in there. We've found

508
00:48:33.780 --> 00:48:34.890
John Mertic: And the, you know,

509
00:48:35.460 --> 00:48:48.090
John Mertic: Many of the legal, you know, committee members of the open mainframe project and our project communities have generally found the lateness of the developer certificate of origin kind of creates less friction for contributions.

510
00:48:48.600 --> 00:49:09.000
John Mertic: I'm certainly if there's any questions that your organization or company councils might have, you know, our the Linux Foundation. We do have in house counsel that works with projects and areas around license conformance in contribution and I'm happy to make any connections there.

511
00:49:09.420 --> 00:49:12.270
John Mertic: If your console has any questions or concerns about that approach.

512
00:49:13.110 --> 00:49:13.680
John Mertic: How does that

513
00:49:14.070 --> 00:49:15.480
John Mertic: Hopefully that answers your question.

514
00:49:16.410 --> 00:49:20.430
Ian C: Yeah, that makes it easier. The was on Apache world.

515
00:49:21.000 --> 00:49:24.840
Kip Twitchell: And actually, I might say in premier from since we're both in IBM

516
00:49:25.140 --> 00:49:27.090
Kip Twitchell: This was the way IBM

517
00:49:27.750 --> 00:49:36.030
Kip Twitchell: Open Source community suggested we we do joining the project this way. So it's fully, fully endorsed by IBM as well.

518
00:49:36.870 --> 00:49:37.110
Cool.

519
00:49:38.430 --> 00:49:39.720
Kip Twitchell: Okay, excellent question.

520
00:49:40.440 --> 00:49:41.340
John Mertic: Yeah, definitely.

521
00:49:43.620 --> 00:49:52.140
Kip Twitchell: And and then maybe if I take that a little bit further. One thing that I I am aware, we're going to need to do a lot more of which I'm not an expert yet on

522
00:49:52.950 --> 00:50:01.320
Kip Twitchell: Sandy breezy. And I've been stumbling of it through the process. We're going to have to become much better at our under standing of get GitHub and

523
00:50:01.800 --> 00:50:03.300
Kip Twitchell: And how we do the first code.

524
00:50:03.480 --> 00:50:19.290
Kip Twitchell: management processes in this tool. So that's a, that's a place that certainly some training is going to need to be done for us to be able to properly manage this code in an effective manner so

525
00:50:20.190 --> 00:50:21.630
Ian C: Good job as a really nice.

526
00:50:23.040 --> 00:50:26.700
Ian C: Set of help things on one of the pages are found a little while ago.

527
00:50:27.120 --> 00:50:27.450
Yes.

528
00:50:28.830 --> 00:50:31.710
Ian C: They've got they've got some great training stuff.

529
00:50:32.310 --> 00:50:34.020
Ian C: And the loads of YouTube stuff.

530
00:50:34.800 --> 00:50:37.110
Kip Twitchell: Yes, yes. Okay.

531
00:50:40.470 --> 00:50:44.280
Kip Twitchell: Other comments, questions areas we should focus on

532
00:50:47.880 --> 00:50:52.710
Kip Twitchell: From anything from our you know from our customers that are using the tool.

533
00:50:54.240 --> 00:51:08.100
Kip Twitchell: Any comments that you have about where you would like to see. We'd love to have feedback in the technical steering committee about where you would like us to be focusing any capacity that comes into us from the open source community.

534
00:51:09.480 --> 00:51:22.980
Kip Twitchell: I might point to to under our blog under the activity page. This gives you a bit more description of the, of the, what we're doing on the on the spark side of things.

535
00:51:24.630 --> 00:51:36.660
Kip Twitchell: We'd love feedback about whether you think this future state for Geneva ERS might be useful to you in in leveraging Geneva ERS and integrating with other tools or other

536
00:51:37.170 --> 00:51:49.200
Kip Twitchell: Other ways of doing things and and those kinds of things. So any comments, they're more than welcome to to have your feedback and input on where we focus the community's efforts.

537
00:51:57.420 --> 00:51:57.840
Kip Twitchell: Well,

538
00:51:59.370 --> 00:52:05.130
Kip Twitchell: Happy to have you join now, or you can think about that and give us comments and the next maybe give a

539
00:52:06.510 --> 00:52:13.080
Kip Twitchell: An assignment, we would really would like to have some some discussion about that perhaps in our next TS see me.

540
00:52:14.220 --> 00:52:23.760
Arun V PRASAD: Okay. Oh, hey. Keep this is our own. So I have a question on the proposed plan to open source the current Geneva.

541
00:52:25.470 --> 00:52:26.700
Arun V PRASAD: workbench and the

542
00:52:27.900 --> 00:52:34.410
Arun V PRASAD: modules that we are using so planning to open source, both the workbench and the performance engine.

543
00:52:34.530 --> 00:52:55.560
Kip Twitchell: Yes, we are planning to do that around just it's a very good question. So let's make this very clear IBM today has contracts with certain customers where we provide support for what's called the IBM product is called safir the open source version will be called Geneva ers. The the

544
00:52:56.610 --> 00:53:07.920
Kip Twitchell: Our intent right now is that those will be have the same functionality, the open source version and the IBM SAFA version with one and perhaps two exceptions.

545
00:53:08.400 --> 00:53:20.970
Kip Twitchell: One exception for sure is that we are not able to open source zip enablement zip is a special processor on Z's that are that are lower cost processor

546
00:53:21.480 --> 00:53:30.300
Kip Twitchell: And that is something that that we in in the Geneva and the sapphire world don't own that license we license that from another area of IBM

547
00:53:31.230 --> 00:53:39.960
Kip Twitchell: And so the other area that there might be a difference which we're still investigating is our ability to read underlying the SAM files for dB to

548
00:53:42.120 --> 00:53:51.780
Kip Twitchell: So those might be two differences between the safir the IBM distro of Jeannie the ERS, which will be called safir and the

549
00:53:52.770 --> 00:54:01.560
Kip Twitchell: And the open source versions. Okay, so for the existing customers and our existing contracts and nothing changes. Open source doesn't change things in that way.

550
00:54:02.100 --> 00:54:20.670
Kip Twitchell: You will still have the IBM distro and it will be under the architectural control on the IBM employees that have have in the past managed that that district. Having said that, though we are planning to work towards the process of open sourcing

551
00:54:21.750 --> 00:54:32.160
Kip Twitchell: The, the, the full code base of what we have in Geneva Rs. So to give you a sense of the repos. We are planning.

552
00:54:32.820 --> 00:54:47.280
Kip Twitchell: We've talked about the community repo showed you that that's our administration and we've talked a little bit about the spark PLC. This is new development going on in the GitHub world. It's not coming from an IBM contribution, per se.

553
00:54:48.360 --> 00:55:04.770
Kip Twitchell: The first. The next one is our DVD live and this is more of a utility library that's kind of the foundation of some functions that are performed by the performance engine. But these functions can have uses outside of Geneva ERS like the I O module.

554
00:55:05.850 --> 00:55:14.370
Kip Twitchell: The resources is the next one that will probably get built this will be for the J Cl. The DDL for the workbench.

555
00:55:15.570 --> 00:55:24.480
Kip Twitchell: And the JCR for the performance engines, though, so this will be kind of the install process documentation is fairly clear. You can see here

556
00:55:24.780 --> 00:55:37.170
Kip Twitchell: We also plan to have a repository on the performance engine which will have all the assembler code, minus the zip enablement macros will have a run control, which is the

557
00:55:40.260 --> 00:55:50.910
Kip Twitchell: Repository will also have a workbench, which will be the the workbench. We don't see any difference right now in these last two between anything in safir or

558
00:55:51.360 --> 00:56:00.780
Kip Twitchell: Geneva year, we think that these will be exactly the same code between those alas repository will be the Jeannie Jeannie the year as testing framework.

559
00:56:02.730 --> 00:56:04.230
Kip Twitchell: That answer the question for

560
00:56:04.830 --> 00:56:15.060
Arun V PRASAD: Yeah, that helps and keep an open source version of the performance engine will be executing mainframe right we are proposing execution a view is

561
00:56:15.360 --> 00:56:16.290
Kip Twitchell: Good, so

562
00:56:16.350 --> 00:56:32.790
Kip Twitchell: It. Yes, the code base that we are running right now is the it will be the assembler code that runs on CEOs on the mainframe. Yes. What we're doing here though around is talking about a little bit of the architectural direction. If I go back to

563
00:56:34.290 --> 00:56:37.890
Kip Twitchell: A little bit older post from the end of June.

564
00:56:39.300 --> 00:56:46.500
Kip Twitchell: We had a little bit discussion love to have some more comments back on this proposed journey. The year is 5.0 architectural direction.

565
00:56:47.520 --> 00:56:56.250
Kip Twitchell: And there's some discussion that kind of talks about, would it be helpful if we started to integrate more with Apache Spark.

566
00:56:57.060 --> 00:57:08.100
Kip Twitchell: Would it be helpful if we had a different way of specifying views safir in Geneva ERS logic, for example, could we consider opening up

567
00:57:08.790 --> 00:57:28.020
Kip Twitchell: A more of a language definition that you could write your views in a language which then you could just store and the source code control environment, we would take that language and into a logic table. And so this starts to move from

568
00:57:29.130 --> 00:57:51.090
Kip Twitchell: From purely mainframe based to there's been some discussion a little bit about what we ultimately end up with a Java version that executes the there's some alternative engine discussion down here with a Java version that executes and resolves Geneva ERS logic. So

569
00:57:52.140 --> 00:57:57.510
Kip Twitchell: Glad to have more discussion on that. This is just thought provoking ideas that we put out there for discussion.

570
00:57:59.040 --> 00:57:59.730
Andrea orth: Okay, thank you.

571
00:58:00.900 --> 00:58:01.320
Andrea orth: Um,

572
00:58:02.580 --> 00:58:08.130
Andrea orth: This is Adrian. For those who don't know me. So, speaking for myself, I would like to see some modernization.

573
00:58:08.790 --> 00:58:10.020
Andrea orth: Occur in the front end.

574
00:58:11.340 --> 00:58:23.610
Andrea orth: Part of that is so we can get two more modern development pride processes of CI CD side of thing pipelines small that that

575
00:58:26.490 --> 00:58:31.260
Andrea orth: Outside mainframe community and other even though there are companies doing CI CD on the mainframe.

576
00:58:32.790 --> 00:58:35.850
Andrea orth: And then a lot of developers are more familiar with that.

577
00:58:37.380 --> 00:58:39.420
Andrea orth: model of development.

578
00:58:39.660 --> 00:58:41.700
Andrea orth: That is what exists currently

579
00:58:42.540 --> 00:58:51.750
Kip Twitchell: And Andrew, to your point, I sense that, you know, there's a lot of push. We can make. And we can make a difference in the broader mainframe community.

580
00:58:52.260 --> 00:59:01.620
Kip Twitchell: Just with what we're doing here on open sourcing and GitHub integration. So you get hub works, it doesn't it doesn't care what your languages. Right.

581
00:59:02.190 --> 00:59:19.950
Kip Twitchell: But helping mainframe developers learn a lot of this stuff is something that we can do. They can have a broader influence than just Jimmy VRS that we can leverage Scrum and Agile methods for development and have our tools move forward and and supporting those things more directly

582
00:59:23.220 --> 00:59:33.540
Andrea orth: Yeah. And if there's any way in this may be way out there to figure out some use cases to integrate with various cloud data solutions that

583
00:59:34.710 --> 00:59:35.460
Andrea orth: That'd be cool too.

584
00:59:35.880 --> 00:59:46.260
Kip Twitchell: And that's, that's kind of where you see this, you know, patchy spark is a good surrogate for some of that discussion. It's not the only one you consider, but it is a well known one

585
00:59:46.950 --> 00:59:57.900
Kip Twitchell: If we started to be able to take language in and turn it into a logic table, we probably will Geneva ERS will have a subset of smaller

586
00:59:58.350 --> 01:00:09.510
Kip Twitchell: footprint of functions. It can resolve, then you could do with an Apache Spark, but there would be cases where we could take in. If the Java code had

587
01:00:10.020 --> 01:00:18.990
Kip Twitchell: Use just those limited functions, the junior ERS engine may be able to resolve those much faster than then spark could even on z.

588
01:00:19.770 --> 01:00:32.850
Kip Twitchell: There's other cases where our code our logic in the workbench or in our language, our new language environment could then be executed on other insurance. So we're not limited to the platform.

589
01:00:36.540 --> 01:00:45.900
Kip Twitchell: JOHN I think we had planned this meeting. And I'd like to hold our meetings to an hour, particularly here in the US. If somebody joining on the East Coast will be

590
01:00:46.830 --> 01:00:58.830
John Mertic: Yeah, yeah. I think we're getting probably up to the top of the hour here and I think all great points here, and we can always you know keep abreast of the infrastructure, you know, through the coming weeks here.

591
01:01:00.180 --> 01:01:09.480
John Mertic: I guess the main thing I just wanted to shift on to before we clean up before you finish up here is the cadence of these meetings and timing.

592
01:01:10.170 --> 01:01:18.570
John Mertic: Um, I don't know. You know, a lot of our projects can have different cadence, you know, some like to go weekly if things are in the early day some

593
01:01:19.020 --> 01:01:32.280
John Mertic: Choose to, you know, stretch it out to monthly we have projects that are waiting between I guess maybe that might be the first thing just to kind of align on is what is sort of the right cadence for the meetings for this group.

594
01:01:32.580 --> 01:01:40.260
Kip Twitchell: Good. I'm just going to propose you're going the same place john that I wanted to go. I would propose that we need in the short run.

595
01:01:41.100 --> 01:01:56.400
Kip Twitchell: Particularly as we're working towards the September this week of September, for the open mainframe conference to be meeting multiple times. So I'd like to propose we meet in two weeks. Again, on August 25

596
01:01:57.570 --> 01:02:07.950
Kip Twitchell: That would mean that we would have three steering committee meetings total before that conference to get ourselves well organized to

597
01:02:08.430 --> 01:02:27.270
Kip Twitchell: represent ourselves well and whatever announcement. We make at the conference there any feedback on that from the community would this time, same time in two weeks. Tuesday or Wednesday, depending on which side of the world, you're on work for this for this discussion again.

598
01:02:31.650 --> 01:02:35.070
Kip Twitchell: I don't hear any negatives. So I might take that as a topic of

599
01:02:39.630 --> 01:02:40.020
Sandy Peresie: India.

600
01:02:43.980 --> 01:02:45.840
Kip Twitchell: Ah, OK. OK.

601
01:02:48.030 --> 01:02:50.430
Sandy Peresie: Later Easter timeframe.

602
01:02:51.120 --> 01:02:53.130
Kip Twitchell: Now, I think, I think this would this would be

603
01:02:53.430 --> 01:02:56.490
Kip Twitchell: A fairly okay time Sandy. I'd like to hold it here could

604
01:02:56.580 --> 01:02:58.230
Sandy Peresie: That's OK. OK. That's fine.

605
01:03:00.090 --> 01:03:05.880
Kip Twitchell: Okay. JOHN. So I think our next step is that I will need your help in establishing the

606
01:03:07.170 --> 01:03:12.090
Kip Twitchell: The cadence of our Ts seen meetings helped me through this process.

607
01:03:12.330 --> 01:03:14.490
John Mertic: Absolutely. I'll help you make sure we get those

608
01:03:15.000 --> 01:03:17.040
John Mertic: On the agenda and we'll just sort of keep that

609
01:03:17.430 --> 01:03:19.260
John Mertic: For the foreseeable future, and then

610
01:03:20.220 --> 01:03:21.900
John Mertic: You know, as, as you would look to

611
01:03:21.960 --> 01:03:23.280
John Mertic: You know, change that down the road.

612
01:03:23.280 --> 01:03:25.140
12068498832: You can that we can easily do that.

613
01:03:26.160 --> 01:03:26.550
Kip Twitchell: Excellent.

614
01:03:27.750 --> 01:03:28.170
Can I

615
01:03:29.250 --> 01:03:30.240
Kip Twitchell: If there's any

616
01:03:31.080 --> 01:03:36.060
Kip Twitchell: Just a concluding thought and I'll open for anybody else to make thoughts, but I just want you to know I'm

617
01:03:36.540 --> 01:03:38.220
Kip Twitchell: Excited to have the energy here.

618
01:03:38.370 --> 01:03:40.770
Kip Twitchell: The question you're asking the community involvement.

619
01:03:41.340 --> 01:03:43.140
12068498832: I think there's a big difference. We can make

620
01:03:43.170 --> 01:03:55.440
Kip Twitchell: This we've been working in an open source kind of world engineers ERS for years now is we did come from a services background adding features to the product based upon our customers request.

621
01:03:55.650 --> 01:03:57.120
Kip Twitchell: Collaboratively doing that.

622
01:03:57.210 --> 01:04:07.650
Kip Twitchell: In our projects. So it's exciting to be able to do this in a more formal way and and under the auspices of the Linux Foundation have their

623
01:04:07.950 --> 01:04:08.190
12068498832: Their

624
01:04:08.520 --> 01:04:16.050
Kip Twitchell: Their stamp of approval on how we're trying to do this and make it an independent, non not one company on in the US.

625
01:04:16.050 --> 01:04:17.730
Kip Twitchell: But an independent to community.

626
01:04:18.390 --> 01:04:21.570
Kip Twitchell: That multiple parties involved in and

627
01:04:23.340 --> 01:04:24.840
Kip Twitchell: Try things forward in a large way.

628
01:04:25.080 --> 01:04:26.220
Kip Twitchell: Excited, have you on board.

629
01:04:28.200 --> 01:04:28.590
John Mertic: Awesome.

630
01:04:29.490 --> 01:04:32.730
John Mertic: Awesome. Well, yeah, work with you to get the next meeting together.

631
01:04:34.410 --> 01:04:38.100
John Mertic: And I can't remember off the top my head. The individual think Bob was it

632
01:04:38.160 --> 01:04:39.270
Bob McCormack: That you took this in

633
01:04:39.270 --> 01:04:50.940
John Mertic: The background. Yes. Okay. Yeah. If you whenever you have some of those together, feel free to, you know, share it out to the group here and then I can make sure I can help kip get to where we can post this up in the GitHub.

634
01:04:50.940 --> 01:04:59.970
John Mertic: repository for people in the future. And this meeting is also recorded, so we will make that recording also available in case people couldn't make the call.

635
01:05:03.060 --> 01:05:03.510
John Mertic: Awesome.

636
01:05:04.590 --> 01:05:13.590
John Mertic: Congratulations. Everyone you got your first TASC meeting. Thank you so much for those of you who've been up at all hours of the night to make this work and

637
01:05:14.280 --> 01:05:22.170
John Mertic: definitely look forward to collaborating with this meeting future meetings, you will hear mostly from Kip, and I will be more in the background, but always happy to jump in. We needed

638
01:05:23.160 --> 01:05:25.260
Kip Twitchell: Thanks for scholarship time

639
01:05:25.650 --> 01:05:26.070
John Mertic: Also, awesome.

640
01:05:27.420 --> 01:05:28.590
John Mertic: Awesome. Take care everyone

641
01:05:28.830 --> 01:05:29.100
Okay.

642
01:05:31.890 --> 01:05:33.120
Ian C: curiosities guys

