# Meeting notes TSC 2024-03-19 6pm Pacific Time (US)
All interested in GenevaERS development are welcome to join.
## Conference call details
### Zoom Meeting
https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/95522057563?password=a2cb4656-98bd-4f6e-9d48-2998457acf72
## Attendees 
- Andrea Orth 
- Gillian Hannington 
- Ian Cunningham
- Michael Shapiro
- Neil Beesley 
- Randall Ness
<!-- 
- Bob McCormack 
- Eugene Morrow 
- Kip Twitchell 
- Jeff Horner 
-->
## Workbench
  
## Administration

- Should we replace the information in Committers.csv with the list of GitHub teams and level of access for each repo?
  Review committers.csv every few months. Andrea thinks there's a GitHub action to automate a reminder and create a reminder issue
  For each repository, we can update README.md to list the teams and access level.
  
- As part of project governance, do we want all access to be through a team and not individual access?
  As people join and leave the project, using team based access is easier to add / remove than individual access to repos
  
- Thoughts on using automation to clean up old issues?
  Hold the thought for the future so we can think on it some more. Maybe created a discussion item so we don't forget.

## OMP meeting updates

- New mainframe will be available in time for summer mentorships
- [Z/OS Open Tools](https://github.com/ZOSOpenTools) project presented at TAC. Vote via email to add the project under OMP 

### Conferences

- Open Mainframe Summit again partners with the [FINOS](https://www.finos.org/) conference in New York 9/30 - 10/1.
- There is also a conference in London 6/26 - London Finance Forum
- OMP will be reaching out to FINOS member companies trying to get their mainframers invited to FINOS on behalf of OMP
- OMP looking for 3 more sponsors for the Open Mainframe Summit

### Items for focus in 2024

#### The road to gold

- We reviewed the [draft code of conduct](https://github.com/orgs/genevaers/discussions/300). More content was added since the TSC meeting on March 12th
- We reviewed the [draft accessibility statement ](https://github.com/genevaers/Community/pull/301). Feedback can be added to the pull request

John will be emphasizing projects maturation to a gold badge this year.
[Project board](https://github.com/orgs/genevaers/projects/8/views/2)

Project checkin with John is the morning of 4/15 (US time)

- Tasks from last time: 
  - Research Jekyll.
  - Research alt-text descriptions for images.
    - Gill researched these and will put it in writing.
  - Flesh out the V5 project plan to use as the Roadmap for the Silver badge.
    - Randall will do this.
- Password storage
- Bug reporting process
  - Andrea will jot some notes down on this.
- Coding standards
  - Randall will send assembler coding standards.
- Installation process
  - Kip will work on this.
- Automated test suite
- New functionality testing
  
#### 2024 goals

- Product Research
- ADABAS support
- Changes to MR88
- Stretch goal of updating documentation to reflect current functionality

### Project lifecycle procedures
## Documentation
- Goal for 2024: Review and expand documentation.
- Documentation demo from Gill. 
  - User security issues.
- "A document a week, that's all we ask" 
## Infrastructure
## Run-Control Apps
## R&D Work
- Using ADABAS as a data source.  
- Alternatives to a using a database for metadata
- Byte Buddy 
- Liberty - open source alternative to WebSphere.
## Performance Engine
- Aggregation functions
- MR95 parameters to support table lookups using a hashing algorithm  
- Java bytecode 
  - What is the minimum possible bytecode program we could develop?
    - "HELLO WORLD"
## Potential users (who may want support)
## Demo
## Conferences 
- Possible presentation at the Winter SHARE conference 
## For next time 
- Kip will discuss AI on the mainframe.
- Randall will compare MR95 to CICS. 
