Meeting notes from the TSC held on October 26th, 2021. 

 
### IBM Presentation ###
Kip and Randall gave their presentation to over 800+ attendees of IBM's open source community. Afterwards, they were contacted by someone working with a major bank and Kip was also contacted by someone working with finance sales

### Mentorship ###
* No new information on a mentee at this time.
* As for a work item, Gillian had an idea that someone could create a comparison process for SAFR / Geneva and COBOL

### OZE ###
Kip did a podcast on the OZE effort. He does not know when it will be published

### Upcoming TAC meeting ###
* We could ask TAC for some WordPress expertise for GenevaERS and Kip's ledger sites
* Sandy - have we asked TAC about Spark expertise?

#### Documentation ####
* Randall has been working on a markdown document that is similar to a table of contents showing the hierarchy of help topics for what will be the markdown version of Geneva documentation. Once the document is cleaned up it can be published
* Eugene has been building the folder structure for the new site. 
* The repo Randall and Eugene are working on is currently on the IBM GitHub

* Kip has been placing old GenevaERS and SAFR documentation raw materials within an IBM Box instance. 
* If anyone puts anything in the Box folder, they are responsible for ensuring client protected information has been removed
The PowerPoint documents used for the old training videos has notes containing the text used in the videos. Kip has been trying to export the text, but so far has been unsuccessful

* Randall suggested we use the alternate Tuesday 8 PM US time meetings for documentation instead of a separate Thursday meeting.
* In addition, Randall suggested we no longer have a separate infrastructure meeting and instead fold infrastructure into our TSC meetings

#### Workbench ####
* Ian suggested we put a docker image out there for the postgres database. It worked on a Mac and a Windows machine
* This can be tried on a team member's Linux Fedora workstation
* Ian suggested people "watch" the GitHub repos. In this way, they will receive a notification when the repo changes
* Functionality to use a COBOL copybook to create a LR is in progress
 
### Financial Open Source Outreach ###
* Kip talked to someone within IBM who understands the workings of the FINOS group. This resource is not sure we'll get farther with FINOS
* osclimate.org is looking for financial processing capabilities
* The banking industry architecture network is moving towards open source ways of working

### R&D ###
The demo views were changed to be more efficient in the processing

### PE ###
* Gillian and Ian are working on some problems when a view is referencing prior columns
* Gillian finished the DB2 lookup exit template. It needs to be documented