Kickoff meeting of the GenevaERS TSC. All interested in GenevaERS development are welcome to join.

# Zoom Meeting Link
THe [Zoom meeting can be viewed here:](https://zoom.us/rec/share/4fdTduqpzFFJcK-T71jlR4o8IrrOX6a81iYf-aAKmht_z3nOjA5340DTxLhdw9T6?startTime=1597193726000)


# Agenda:

Welcome and intros
Purpose and role of TSC
Chairperson and secretary
Infrastructure checklist
Meeting cadence

## Conference call details

Join Zoom Meeting
https://zoom.us/j/91769513671

Meeting ID: 917 695 13671

## Attendance
Voting member rollcall:
[x ] Randall Ness, IBM (RN)
[x ] Jeff Horner, IBM
[x] Gillian Hannington, IBM
[x ] Ian Cunningham, IBM (IC)
[ ] Eugene Morrow, IBM
[x ] Bob McCormack, IBM
[x] Kip Twitchell, IBM (KT)

## Other Attendees
[x ] Jim Hladyshewsky, SAFR Delivery Manager, IBM
[x] Andrea Orth (AO)
Andrew Siu
Jaydeep Banerjee
Thomas Fung
Raydeepsingh Risaldar
Sandy Peresie
GNVAB GNVAB
Arun V Prasad (AVP)
John Metic (JM)
several others identified by phone numbers only

# Minutes

Introduction

JM opened meeting with introduction noting this is the 13th OMP project
some participants identified themselves

## TSC

   - JM discussed purpose and role of TSC, it is similar to other foundations
   - it is a core group of leaders who set direction
   - helps resolves issues and mediate sensitive matters
   - it is to be very supportive of the community, so a good TSC is in lockstep with its community
   - maintaining connections to key vendors and is driven to succeed
   - TSC meetings are open to anybody and provides a first technical contact to new people
   - JM from the Linux Foundation provides a supportive role e.g. governance et al
   - typically TSC starts with committers who add/update code
   - issues are voted on

## Elect TSM roles

   - Chairperson (CP) is to serve the community and would be mentored by JM.
   - They are the spokesperson for the community and term limits are variable
   - Secretary compiles minutes and distributes minutes and work with CP on meeting agenda
   - This latter role can be on a round robin basis or permanent position
   - For CP, KT nominated by RN, seconded IC, accepted by KT, elected on voices
   - For Secretary, AO nominated by KT , no seconder, accepted by AO, elected on voices

## TSC Materials (infrastructure)

   - the project intake checklist was identified by JM and then discussed in fuller detail by KT
   - KT mentioned the project is really an OMP organisation with multiple repositories
   - He stressed the community would hold much of the project documentation
   - He also noted that it was a good area to comment by raising Issues
   - KT noted communications existed via Slack, mailing list and a web page for more information
   - KT went over the other repos
   - the first source would in the gvblib repo which has the GVBUR20 program
   - the spark-poc repo is trying to demonstrate how GenevaERS relates to Apache Spark and there are currently daily calls on this work
   - AO would be looking to contribute to the body of documentation to explain our activities in the Community repo
   - KT notes a willingness to get ready for the OMP Summit in September to showcase our project
   - RN made comments about the logo discussion and will make further submissions via Slack
   - KT stated that the project has a Incubation status and has about 12 months to achieve Active status if follow and meet well defined criteria

##General Technical Discussion

   - JM emphasized do not hesitate to reach out and the current project is looking good
   - KT wants to use the forthcoming OMP Summit to publicize GenevaERS
   - KT repeated that use of the Slack channel/thread is very useful e.g logo discussion
   - BT stated that he has access to a design team to take a logo submission and produce a quality outcome
   - IC raised the issue of a certificate of originality. JM and KT chipped in here and the project would follow existing linux Foundation guidelines and a implicit sign off statement occurs upon a git commit for the SPDX license. It comprises 3 parts

    > you as a developer give permission
    > you have permission based on the same licence on some source you have obtained and are committing
    > understood it is public

   - KT confirmed that IBM Counsel endorsed this approach
   - KT would love any feedback from our customers and pointed to the activities on the SPARC-POC
   - AVP asked about the current plan and the scope of what is being moved to GenevaERS project
   - KT replied that the bulk of the product from Performance Engine and Workbench would be made available with two areas related to ZIIP Enablement and VSAM IO being excluded
   - KT took this opportunity to go over what repos are to exist

    > gvblib to hold the GVBUR20 utility
    > Resources to hold JCL (install) and scripts (DDL Db2)
    > Performance Engine to hold source
    > Run Control holding GVBMR91
    > Workbench
    > Test Framework
   - KT stated the code base in OSS would run on OSS but is not averse to other processes/languages to run elsewhere
   - AO noted the dated nature of the front end development
   - KT replied that in this OSS environment such a desire is in keeping with its aims
   - AO also asked some consideration for interfacing with some cloud solutions
   - KT stressed new language discussions for other platforms would be encouraged

## Cadence

KT proposed a 2 week cadence for meeting, next call is Aug 25th (ASIA) Aug 24th (US et al)
call time is the same time as today

# Closing

JM concluded the meeting at the 60 minute mark wishing us well for our endeavours