Meeting notes from the TSC held on July 27th, 2021. 
 
All interested in GenevaERS development are welcome to join.
 
## Conference call details
  
Join Zoom Meeting
 
https://zoom.us/j/94966206199
 
Meeting ID: 949 6620 6199
 
### One Year Review ###
August 12th, GenevaERS will provide an update at the Open Mainframe Project's (OMP) Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) meeting.

#### Workbench ####
* 0 vulnerabilities are reported in the latest scan of the workbench code
* Testing importing and exporting is almost complete
* Sonarcube is still reporting bugs; these can be fixed over time
### Demo progress 
 
#### Performance Engine pre-process 
* Generating jlt files are still a work  in progress
* The test framework can test the outputs of the java MR91 and the old mainframe MR91
 
####  Performance Engine ####
* No issues
 
#### Build process updates ####
* Randall is iterating the master list of SAFR and GenevaERS modules. The GenevaERS load library will be created from the SAFR load library minus proprietary code
* 2 bugs have been found when using XML and not a database. One bug must be fixed before releasing the GenevaERS load library
* Randall has documented the instructions for downloading and installing the GenevaERS load library 
* Bob is working on the license scripting work
  
#### Sample Views ####
* Michael ran the demo views and the run times were not as expected. The token views are running slower than expected. Wall ckock time is 3 minutes
* Michael created non-token views with similar functionality and the same reference files which run in 18 seconds
* We need to determine why token performance is poor
 
#### Video for the demo ####
* Independently, Eugene and Kip worked on a script for the short video. Eugene removed technical terms and focused on what Geneva does well
* Kip will send Eugene his script 
* More technical information like in Kip's script can be used in a followup video
 
#### JCL to run the views ####
* JCL for the demo will go into the demo repo
* JCL that reads a database will go in the resources repo
 
#### Documentation for the demo ####
* Ian and Eugene working on the site for documentation for the demo which is at https://genevaers.github.io/demo/
