WEBVTT

1
00:06:25.980 --> 00:06:26.580
Kip Twitchell: Hey john can

2
00:06:27.960 --> 00:06:29.340
Kip Twitchell: You hear me. Yep.

3
00:06:29.400 --> 00:06:30.630
John Mertic: I can hear you. Kip, how's it going

4
00:06:31.650 --> 00:06:31.980
Good.

5
00:06:34.620 --> 00:06:36.180
Kip Twitchell: Dropped the link to the

6
00:06:36.180 --> 00:06:37.890
John Mertic: Doctor in the chat here.

7
00:06:39.360 --> 00:06:43.260
Kip Twitchell: I got a network issue. So I'm just on my phone today.

8
00:06:43.920 --> 00:06:44.970
Okay, no worries.

9
00:06:47.970 --> 00:06:50.580
Kip Twitchell: I can talk you through my email is that agenda item.

10
00:06:53.160 --> 00:07:01.860
John Mertic: Yeah yeah we that agenda item is on there. I think it is the Second on the list today.

11
00:07:02.640 --> 00:07:02.970
Kip Twitchell: Thank you.

12
00:07:03.210 --> 00:07:04.470
Kip Twitchell: So we should be able to be good.

13
00:07:08.100 --> 00:07:08.760
Kip Twitchell: And

14
00:07:08.790 --> 00:07:14.640
John Mertic: I'll actually I'll share the since you're just on your phone, I'll share the running Google doc with you.

15
00:07:15.930 --> 00:07:21.240
John Mertic: For some of the meeting notes everything in the background is your IBM address okay for that or is there another one that's

16
00:07:21.240 --> 00:07:23.670
Kip Twitchell: Preferred yeah that's fine. Yeah. IBM

17
00:07:27.960 --> 00:07:29.490
Kip Twitchell: And sure, no problem.

18
00:07:30.150 --> 00:07:31.140
Hey Peter, and Greg.

19
00:07:32.550 --> 00:07:33.000
John Mertic: Michael

20
00:07:37.290 --> 00:07:37.800
Gregory MacKinnon: Hi john

21
00:07:39.180 --> 00:07:39.750
John Mertic: How's it going,

22
00:07:40.110 --> 00:07:41.460
Gregory MacKinnon: Okay, how about with you.

23
00:07:42.060 --> 00:07:43.530
John Mertic: Ah, not too bad.

24
00:07:43.680 --> 00:07:44.220
Too bad.

25
00:07:45.270 --> 00:07:46.320
John Mertic: Towards the end of the year here.

26
00:07:46.650 --> 00:07:47.040
Yeah.

27
00:07:50.850 --> 00:08:05.100
John Mertic: I put a link to the meeting notes doc in the chat. If you want to pop in there, feel free to you can add your name into the agenda at your name on the attendees list if

28
00:08:07.020 --> 00:08:08.100
John Mertic: If you'd like

29
00:08:09.990 --> 00:08:19.260
John Mertic: And at the same time, I'll be looking for anyone interested in doing notes for today. I'll let you all kind of have a few minutes to

30
00:08:20.160 --> 00:08:29.790
John Mertic: Reflect if that's something you're interested in. I we've tried doing it. We last time we did it as a Google Doc, and it seemed like it made it a little bit easier. So that way, in case. Others want to jump in and help

31
00:08:29.790 --> 00:08:30.270
Peter Fandel: That's

32
00:08:31.200 --> 00:08:31.770
Easy to do

33
00:08:37.020 --> 00:08:38.580
Peter Fandel: We're starting to get a few folks in

34
00:08:43.830 --> 00:08:47.190
John Mertic: Here. Hey Mark, and Matt and Mike and Randall.

35
00:08:48.780 --> 00:08:49.530
Mark K Post: Oh hello.

36
00:08:55.710 --> 00:08:58.350
John Mertic: We're just not even quite to the hour yet so

37
00:08:58.380 --> 00:09:00.120
John Mertic: We're already getting a good crowd. So it's a positive

38
00:09:00.120 --> 00:09:00.480
Side.

39
00:09:21.900 --> 00:09:23.280
Matt Hogstrom: Hey john. Can you hear me OK.

40
00:09:23.850 --> 00:09:27.360
John Mertic: I can, I can. Good to hear from you make your maps. Sorry.

41
00:09:30.180 --> 00:09:31.950
Matt Hogstrom: A little while. Lots of shuffling

42
00:09:32.460 --> 00:09:35.430
John Mertic: Yes, it has. Since it's good to good to have you back involved.

43
00:09:37.650 --> 00:09:37.980
Matt Hogstrom: To be here.

44
00:09:41.070 --> 00:09:44.520
John Mertic: Let's see, see Dan Hey Dan,

45
00:09:47.220 --> 00:09:47.580
Dan HorÃ¡k: Oh,

46
00:09:57.420 --> 00:09:58.260
John Mertic: Jordan shot.

47
00:09:59.280 --> 00:10:04.350
John Mertic: Canto from Broadcom or you can do from Broadcom high church.

48
00:10:12.150 --> 00:10:16.860
John Mertic: We're just one minute after the hour here so we'll give folks, some time to pop in

49
00:10:19.350 --> 00:10:20.790
John Mertic: If you can, I'm going to just

50
00:10:20.820 --> 00:10:24.270
John Mertic: Re share the document link.

51
00:10:25.740 --> 00:10:33.450
John Mertic: In the chat. It's a Google Doc, if you wouldn't mind bopping in there and under the other attendees if you want

52
00:10:33.450 --> 00:10:49.860
John Mertic: To add your name to the list of other attendees. That would be fantastic for voting members, I'll kind of take you off at the top and at the same time, if anybody be interested in putting notes in are taking notes for today. That would be most appreciated.

53
00:10:52.080 --> 00:10:54.900
John Mertic: Maybe right here in this doc. So hopefully that makes it a little bit easier.

54
00:11:09.720 --> 00:11:14.190
John Mertic: Remember to see if we get a few more voting members. I don't see

55
00:11:15.450 --> 00:11:15.900
John Mertic: Let's see.

56
00:11:17.040 --> 00:11:20.550
John Mertic: Mike, because if Dino Phil's able to join today, or if you had spoken with him.

57
00:11:27.150 --> 00:11:27.450
Michael MacIsaac: Okay.

58
00:11:29.880 --> 00:11:36.900
John Mertic: And I don't see any you on the line. I don't know if if if you know she's available today.

59
00:11:47.970 --> 00:11:49.920
John Mertic: And I just saw about gullberg join in.

60
00:11:53.520 --> 00:11:57.750
John Mertic: I'm gonna put the link again here in the chat.

61
00:11:59.730 --> 00:12:02.490
John Mertic: So this is the running Google Doc minutes

62
00:12:03.960 --> 00:12:15.060
John Mertic: If you don't mind marking your name under the other attendees. If you could jump in there. That would be wonderful. So we can record you as a part of today's meeting.

63
00:12:24.510 --> 00:12:28.020
John Mertic: And we do have enough votes.

64
00:12:28.050 --> 00:12:29.250
Peter Fandel: For corn it

65
00:12:29.280 --> 00:12:38.970
John Mertic: Appears so I'm gonna, I don't see Phil the line, but I'm going to change right no for dinner. Phil Hillier and say let's go ahead and get going. Is that good with everyone.

66
00:12:39.960 --> 00:12:42.450
Peter Fandel: Yep, and John's Peter. I'm happy to represent

67
00:12:43.500 --> 00:12:46.800
Peter Fandel: For representation in both directions to the Zoe.

68
00:12:47.550 --> 00:12:48.510
Peter Fandel: Okay, he'll see

69
00:12:49.350 --> 00:12:50.520
John Mertic: Awesome. Awesome. Thank you.

70
00:12:52.380 --> 00:13:00.720
John Mertic: So agenda for today. I'll just drop it in the chat here as well. And it is in the Google Doc. In addition,

71
00:13:02.040 --> 00:13:10.770
John Mertic: We're going to look at. We've opened the OMB ambassador program we've had some applications come in and I guess I should share my screen here as well.

72
00:13:12.090 --> 00:13:28.290
John Mertic: I think there's a few open questions on timing and selection. And so I think that's something for the tack to consider today hope everyone can see my screen here, it says tech meeting 1210

73
00:13:30.780 --> 00:13:31.290
Mike Friesenegger: Yes.

74
00:13:31.500 --> 00:13:32.310
Okay, perfect.

75
00:13:34.350 --> 00:13:45.930
John Mertic: So we have that in the agenda today we have a proposal around a public clouds EOS enablement and then we have Kim to a trial trial in the line here to discuss that.

76
00:13:46.500 --> 00:13:54.180
John Mertic: And then we're going to catch up on a few items that have been on the list for a little bit and get some updates Debian S3 90 export from our last meeting.

77
00:13:55.170 --> 00:14:10.860
John Mertic: Tears decompress incubation renewal and I think we've had some progress there that we can share and hopefully we can be in a good place to consider renewing the incubation, and the GitHub actions for hosted projects as well and

78
00:14:12.060 --> 00:14:16.590
John Mertic: Outside of that, and then we'll just run a quick run around the table here for Project updates.

79
00:14:17.700 --> 00:14:22.590
John Mertic: Anything anyone would like us to add to the agenda today that we missed

80
00:14:28.650 --> 00:14:37.410
John Mertic: Perfect. And I'll just drop in the chat. Again, for those of you later arriving, if you want to. If you look in the chat.

81
00:14:37.770 --> 00:14:46.860
John Mertic: There's a link to a Google Doc, if you wouldn't mind going under the other attendees just kind of dropping your name in there so that we can capture you as a part of today's meeting.

82
00:14:48.390 --> 00:14:52.680
John Mertic: And also if. Do I have a volunteer someone who would want to

83
00:14:53.790 --> 00:14:58.770
John Mertic: Take the notes for today, or maybe a couple of people. If you want to tag team on it.

84
00:15:01.110 --> 00:15:06.210
Matt Hogstrom: Yeah, I'm happy to throw some notes in but if there's other people that want to do that as well that would help.

85
00:15:07.500 --> 00:15:15.360
John Mertic: Yeah, absolutely. However, Matt, thank you for taking the lead there and anyone else who wants to help out along the way, you'll have it right so

86
00:15:16.410 --> 00:15:16.980
Go crazy

87
00:15:19.350 --> 00:15:34.740
John Mertic: All right, first on the agenda is a looking at wimpy mentorship applications. So we have had a number of applications already come through. And if you recall at the last meeting.

88
00:15:35.640 --> 00:15:47.730
John Mertic: Was the first time that we had a, you know, formally approved doing the program, as we can see today here. There's a couple that have got duplicated here, but I think we have nine open applications.

89
00:15:48.300 --> 00:15:55.890
John Mertic: And I wanted to, you know, consider with attack here of, you know, a just a timeline for when applications.

90
00:15:56.640 --> 00:16:10.860
John Mertic: Could be accepted through and then be sort of a timeline and when the tack would want to, you know, work through an approval process and sort of where the scope is if I look at from past discussions.

91
00:16:12.000 --> 00:16:17.730
John Mertic: For much of my understanding the and I guess. Anyone here chime in if if I'm missing notes from before.

92
00:16:18.870 --> 00:16:27.570
John Mertic: The intention was for year one to kind of cap it potentially around 10 number. And that was sort of just arbitrary to make sure that there's

93
00:16:28.020 --> 00:16:36.420
John Mertic: Enough. It's a small enough number that it's easy to manage and we can also make sure we're driving good benefits and everything and then expanding that over time.

94
00:16:37.740 --> 00:16:46.830
John Mertic: And also ensuring the candidates have tie backs to various projects so they can help the representation from that and making sure the ambassador class has some

95
00:16:48.360 --> 00:16:53.370
John Mertic: You know, various amounts of diversity representing different areas.

96
00:16:54.600 --> 00:17:03.870
John Mertic: But I don't think we really decided about how long application should be open for and then just sort of when the timeline to accept them. So I don't know.

97
00:17:05.070 --> 00:17:10.200
John Mertic: For me, the voting tech members. I don't know if y'all have any thoughts on what a good way to move forward with that would be

98
00:17:15.540 --> 00:17:21.000
Gregory MacKinnon: I think initially you know john you said maybe through the end of the year, but with the holiday, you know, with for

99
00:17:21.510 --> 00:17:33.300
Gregory MacKinnon: Applicants and all that, but with the holidays. Is that still a good deadline for applications or do you think it should be pushed out or I don't know what your thoughts are around kind of how long to let the applications come in.

100
00:17:34.980 --> 00:17:48.300
John Mertic: It's a good question. Yes, certainly the holidays coming up in that either has one of two things. It's either everything slows down and people have time to pay attention to it or everybody wanders away and doesn't have time to pay attention to it. So,

101
00:17:50.070 --> 00:17:55.110
John Mertic: Would you know the next tech meeting after the new year, I believe, is the 14th.

102
00:17:56.640 --> 00:18:02.370
John Mertic: Would it make sense to keep the applications. Open up till that meeting time

103
00:18:04.440 --> 00:18:06.030
John Mertic: So maybe close them the day before.

104
00:18:16.050 --> 00:18:18.960
Matt Hogstrom: Are you planning on voting at that meeting john or would that

105
00:18:19.440 --> 00:18:23.010
Matt Hogstrom: Really get tougher for another month before you actually got to the voting process.

106
00:18:23.730 --> 00:18:26.130
John Mertic: Um, you know, I think that would be a consideration of attack.

107
00:18:26.460 --> 00:18:27.420
Peter Fandel: Certainly if there's a

108
00:18:27.450 --> 00:18:29.190
John Mertic: You know, it was a reasonable set of candidates. I think the

109
00:18:29.190 --> 00:18:39.840
John Mertic: Cat could vote and make the decisions at that point I think we'd want to consider the best way to move forward on the the voting process there.

110
00:18:41.340 --> 00:18:44.880
John Mertic: But I don't see any reason why the selections could not happen at that meeting.

111
00:18:51.480 --> 00:18:56.160
Gregory MacKinnon: There's a stake in the ground in the 14th and the voting would happen then most likely

112
00:18:57.030 --> 00:19:01.380
John Mertic: I think that's pretty reasonably I do we want to close it this the day before, just so we can

113
00:19:01.410 --> 00:19:03.600
Peter Fandel: Make sure we have a fully prepared blessed or

114
00:19:04.650 --> 00:19:05.100
Peter Fandel: Like the

115
00:19:05.160 --> 00:19:08.820
John Mertic: Day before midnight or something so that way. The next day, that will have the full list.

116
00:19:10.620 --> 00:19:12.450
Matt Hogstrom: Well, you're the guy that has to correlate it right

117
00:19:16.320 --> 00:19:20.070
John Mertic: This is true, this is true. So yeah, so maybe we close it.

118
00:19:20.130 --> 00:19:20.610
Peter Fandel: Um,

119
00:19:20.700 --> 00:19:22.590
John Mertic: You know, midnight. The night before Eastern

120
00:19:23.400 --> 00:19:25.680
John Mertic: And then we can correlate the list from there.

121
00:19:26.550 --> 00:19:27.300
Matt Hogstrom: Would be a

122
00:19:27.810 --> 00:19:31.980
Matt Hogstrom: Can we say 1201 and I sat on the 14th or the 13th.

123
00:19:33.780 --> 00:19:36.060
John Mertic: So the meeting is on the 14th.

124
00:19:36.360 --> 00:19:37.230
So,

125
00:19:38.910 --> 00:19:47.010
John Mertic: It would probably mean I guess if we want to get into the nuances. This is either 11:59pm on the 13th or 12:01am on the 14th.

126
00:19:48.120 --> 00:19:49.590
Matt Hogstrom: So as far as just picking a

127
00:19:50.070 --> 00:19:53.490
Matt Hogstrom: Weird time so midnight wasn't able to us. Yep.

128
00:19:53.520 --> 00:19:53.850
Yep.

129
00:19:55.830 --> 00:20:12.780
John Mertic: So like 12 11:59pm and 59 seconds on the 13th will call for the deadline and Rome Allah make announcements out through a bunch of our channels as well. And again, feel free to socialize this through your channels. We've had a lot of folks.

130
00:20:12.780 --> 00:20:13.830
John Mertic: Step forward already which

131
00:20:13.830 --> 00:20:15.360
John Mertic: Is great.

132
00:20:16.830 --> 00:20:21.450
John Mertic: And so hopefully we can get a really nice program off the ground here.

133
00:20:24.480 --> 00:20:29.220
John Mertic: Any questions or anything else we need to, you know, discuss around the ambassador program at this point.

134
00:20:43.380 --> 00:20:43.890
John Mertic: Awesome.

135
00:20:46.020 --> 00:20:54.780
John Mertic: Well, let's move to the next item on the list public cloud Z OS enablement, and this was a

136
00:20:54.810 --> 00:20:56.310
Peter Fandel: Project idea that kip had

137
00:20:56.310 --> 00:20:58.440
John Mertic: Proposed Kip, I don't know if you want to

138
00:20:59.160 --> 00:21:00.960
John Mertic: Kind of present a little bit of what you're thinking.

139
00:21:00.960 --> 00:21:01.200
Here.

140
00:21:06.930 --> 00:21:08.670
John Mertic: I don't know if your audio is I think you might be muted.

141
00:21:24.510 --> 00:21:26.130
Kip Twitchell: Thank you. There we

142
00:21:28.590 --> 00:21:35.070
Kip Twitchell: got lost on my phone there for a second. Thanks everybody for your time here and john space here. I'm, I'm the

143
00:21:36.000 --> 00:21:56.490
Kip Twitchell: Technical the chair of the technical steering committee for the Geneva year as project and coming into the own pee in July, has been instructive for us about the impediments that I think we're facing on open source on iOS specifically

144
00:21:58.080 --> 00:22:01.950
Kip Twitchell: And so I've had a number of discussions with other

145
00:22:03.660 --> 00:22:09.480
Kip Twitchell: Oh NP projects and since I've worked for IBM some internal IBM discussions as well.

146
00:22:11.190 --> 00:22:25.980
Kip Twitchell: About what could we do to make public cloud zero s possible now I can't can't solve all the problems, but one thing because particularly like hardware.

147
00:22:26.370 --> 00:22:33.180
Kip Twitchell: Is something that's needed to run NGOs and that's dependent upon people that have made investments in the hardware.

148
00:22:33.780 --> 00:22:46.140
Kip Twitchell: And their willingness to contribute, but there we have seen from the GDP heroes project. There are organizations that are willing to dedicate some hardware capacity to on p projects.

149
00:22:46.920 --> 00:23:00.930
Kip Twitchell: One of the things that we noted for our through our process, though, is a next impediment. We often run into is around open around to see programmers because there. If you take all of the CEOs.

150
00:23:02.460 --> 00:23:16.350
Kip Twitchell: Resources that knows EOS you know system programmers or even a smaller more valuable slice of that and with the shared environment, the NGOs is administering for

151
00:23:18.390 --> 00:23:28.110
Kip Twitchell: Or a community becomes a burden to these organizations. So what kind of through the discussions here, a number of months.

152
00:23:29.190 --> 00:23:40.140
Kip Twitchell: You know, it seems to me that there's a need or developing some tools and capabilities that would help enable a company if they have

153
00:23:41.490 --> 00:23:55.500
Kip Twitchell: Environment that they or capacity resource that they would like to commit to open source projects as EOS enabling them to do it easier. That may allow more companies.

154
00:23:56.310 --> 00:24:08.070
Kip Twitchell: To contribute resources in some way if if they weren't able to do. So this is a critical thing for growing, you know, skills, NGOs, because I'm in charge of a number of consultants.

155
00:24:08.640 --> 00:24:18.360
Kip Twitchell: And the experience the training that these people need. They don't need cam training they need experiential environments to be able to

156
00:24:19.410 --> 00:24:32.610
Kip Twitchell: Play around with tools and develop connections and it's it's often the same thing we see people coming into open new environments wanting to learn, they want to learn by experimentation.

157
00:24:33.390 --> 00:24:44.280
Kip Twitchell: And without that sort of capability, instead of very locked down programmatic things were inhibiting new people coming into the platforms and contributing in various ways.

158
00:24:45.150 --> 00:24:54.900
Kip Twitchell: So one of the ideas that I had was we had the eye. And all of this is written in the issue that I opened on the attack community.

159
00:24:56.130 --> 00:25:08.100
Kip Twitchell: If there was the ability to create tooling that would allow an organization to download this tooling to use NGOs that specifies

160
00:25:08.580 --> 00:25:18.150
Kip Twitchell: How much resource this organization and what time for this organization would be able to dedicate to an open source community, what sorts of things that

161
00:25:18.750 --> 00:25:28.320
Kip Twitchell: Can can individuals make their own health partners or sign up for an out part. What sort of tooling. Are they available to install in those environments.

162
00:25:29.970 --> 00:25:41.130
Kip Twitchell: You know, when would the system be available. How does it. How can we limit the myths that are used, so that it doesn't send it over for our rolling average and increase their

163
00:25:41.730 --> 00:25:58.800
Kip Twitchell: Their payout and have impact on other places. It's not an easy problem to solve. But by having the discussion and bringing the other community members in an open source community. I think that we can make some traction on this, which would help enable and bring forward the club.

164
00:26:00.690 --> 00:26:11.820
Kip Twitchell: Instability. So what's needed in the community would be. We need people that are system programmers that understand what these constraints are intent and vision what automation might help.

165
00:26:12.420 --> 00:26:19.320
Kip Twitchell: Them alleviate these kinds of problems would also be we need to know owners of these systems.

166
00:26:20.010 --> 00:26:28.950
Kip Twitchell: That would be willing to dedicate what sorts of things would be the constraints that they'd have to be part of this community. We also need Knowledge of

167
00:26:29.610 --> 00:26:36.660
Kip Twitchell: Inside of IBM on any Z OS cloud initiatives that are going on so that we're working in tandem and complimentary to those

168
00:26:37.380 --> 00:26:49.890
Kip Twitchell: And then other own team members that that have gone through this, how they solve problems, how they worked around these kinds of things. That's what the proposal is some feedback. I'm hoping to get today from this group.

169
00:26:54.240 --> 00:26:55.260
Matt Hogstrom: He said one

170
00:26:55.470 --> 00:26:56.280
Matt Hogstrom: One thing that

171
00:26:57.780 --> 00:26:58.890
Matt Hogstrom: You didn't mention it.

172
00:27:00.570 --> 00:27:18.360
Matt Hogstrom: Was two types of hardware right basically some way to host the 390 right either emulation mode and help our mode. In fact, our systems programmer switches more deeply integrated component. And I think there's also software licensing.

173
00:27:18.840 --> 00:27:21.630
Kip Twitchell: That you would need. So obviously, IBM would have to

174
00:27:21.630 --> 00:27:28.620
Matt Hogstrom: Somehow license or have some agreement for CEOs and related component tree but companies like Broadcom have

175
00:27:29.460 --> 00:27:39.510
Matt Hogstrom: Compliment or a replacement or alternative security managers, right. So there'll be rack as the IBM stack Broadcom has ACM to a top secret so

176
00:27:40.170 --> 00:27:50.070
Matt Hogstrom: I think there's a kind of a whole additional set of items that need to be done in terms of kind of software donations or licensing for the development community.

177
00:27:51.180 --> 00:27:57.240
Kip Twitchell: That's a good. That's a good ad and I'd had considered that under the hardware. It's an extension of the hardware to those licenses.

178
00:27:57.960 --> 00:28:10.470
Kip Twitchell: One thing, though, that even, even if we were if we eliminated the need. There are instances where people could use very simple open source capabilities on a base zero s system.

179
00:28:11.430 --> 00:28:26.130
Kip Twitchell: That may be useful in some limited instances for experimentation and development but but your points well taken all of that would have to be part of it. I'm not trying to solve that resource allocation issue. I'm trying to enable

180
00:28:27.180 --> 00:28:32.520
Kip Twitchell: Make it easier, that if someone's willing to contribute, they could contribute. I can't make sense.

181
00:28:33.660 --> 00:28:42.270
Hiren Shah: So have you looked at z PDT. Also, is there any specific reason that we need the real cus hardware.

182
00:28:42.300 --> 00:28:43.110
Or see hardware.

183
00:28:44.220 --> 00:28:55.860
Kip Twitchell: Yeah. So, good question. I have used I am to the US, the PDP this year and I found it very difficult to be honest with you to attempt to use

184
00:28:57.150 --> 00:29:13.110
Kip Twitchell: Just not that it may be around that we could go looking, but I think there's an issue there probably with resources. If I were to guess I'm in the consulting division of IBM, so I don't speak for IBM in in the CEOs space, just to be clear.

185
00:29:14.760 --> 00:29:22.530
Kip Twitchell: But you know for for the teams that are maintaining that when I think about cost of maintaining and trying to open that up for the open source community.

186
00:29:23.250 --> 00:29:31.650
Kip Twitchell: If there's a if there were additions added to the PDP that made it easier. That would be helpful for example on the PDP the installation.

187
00:29:32.220 --> 00:29:43.920
Kip Twitchell: The basic installation starts on page 106 of the 300 page manual, but it's very deep before you get there. How did you get started and an open source community.

188
00:29:44.430 --> 00:29:53.820
Kip Twitchell: That contributes a giving a quick start guide could be helpful in making the PDP. The other thing is the hardware constraint on the token that's needed

189
00:29:55.200 --> 00:29:58.770
Kip Twitchell: Is there some way so that we could make that more accessible.

190
00:29:59.280 --> 00:30:08.310
Kip Twitchell: So we're not requiring a hardware token that becomes a constraint for people to experiment and get started if we can make that easier for them to get to

191
00:30:08.610 --> 00:30:15.990
Kip Twitchell: That would be helpful, but all of that part of your questions have a valid place could be part of this discussion and sent me to make sure that

192
00:30:16.500 --> 00:30:19.200
Hiren Shah: It's not limited to real the hardware de de de

193
00:30:20.190 --> 00:30:20.970
Hiren Shah: de de de paz

194
00:30:22.620 --> 00:30:27.720
Kip Twitchell: The development of test systems as the D amp D AMP T systems can also be part of that as well.

195
00:30:28.200 --> 00:30:31.950
Matt Hogstrom: Yeah, the DNA. Just, just for a reference point.

196
00:30:31.950 --> 00:30:36.060
Matt Hogstrom: kick in. So we, we had a we had a server.

197
00:30:36.600 --> 00:30:46.830
Matt Hogstrom: Out. It is part of the Zoe infrastructure, I think it was river so we.org and we ran up to five instances of CDT on that.

198
00:30:47.460 --> 00:30:58.500
Matt Hogstrom: And we use that before we move to Maris as part of the build process, so there's less of a need for it, but we ran those as Docker containers. And so the setup and installation was actually pretty simple.

199
00:30:59.520 --> 00:31:12.720
Matt Hogstrom: Given that we had a docker image that already been customized that people could just say stand up for me and it was kind of boom, boom, boom, you'd have a system, you know, within 10 minutes or so.

200
00:31:13.080 --> 00:31:14.700
Kip Twitchell: And we use those two

201
00:31:15.000 --> 00:31:19.140
Matt Hogstrom: And those out to some of the insurance or working so they have to work on.

202
00:31:20.700 --> 00:31:21.180
Matt Hogstrom: Last year,

203
00:31:22.200 --> 00:31:31.500
Kip Twitchell: Right right there if we if you have that code isolated that did that function. You've got to feed for an open source community right there off of that code base. Right.

204
00:31:32.790 --> 00:31:43.110
Kip Twitchell: And maybe it isn't a full solution, but those kinds of things, bringing us together. I think would be helpful to make those available to other teams that are going through this

205
00:31:44.400 --> 00:31:45.390
Kip Twitchell: And other individuals.

206
00:31:49.980 --> 00:32:01.740
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Dog and I really like what you're talking about here because this is something on at being an educator something I'm very interested in. But I think too that way if you talk about having some you know some things for

207
00:32:03.060 --> 00:32:19.500
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): People for potential systems programmers or existing systems programmers to hone their skills there. There are so many different, diverse areas and Assistant Program, or does you know there's installs there's maintenance. There's configuration. There's exit writing

208
00:32:20.730 --> 00:32:24.810
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): You know there's there's all kinds of stuff like that. And I'm wondering

209
00:32:25.830 --> 00:32:36.480
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): You know, maybe what we could do is identify the functionality we need or functional our processes that we already have that already.

210
00:32:37.890 --> 00:32:50.790
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Enables the functionality that that people could use so that we can make sure that we've not saying let's just for systems programming, but here are the functions of assistance program or that we can we can support or we need to support

211
00:32:52.140 --> 00:32:57.270
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): The project perspective, you know, it'd be a nice way to break it down into bite sized pieces of liquid

212
00:32:57.480 --> 00:32:57.720
Yes.

213
00:32:58.890 --> 00:33:13.980
Kip Twitchell: Very good, Bob. Thought you trigger there for me, right, is that, let's start with that vanilla flavor that has no other software licenses involved that maybe just for like cobalt development against flat files.

214
00:33:15.270 --> 00:33:27.390
Kip Twitchell: You know that that uses something that simple. How can we make creating that environment. Now it will get so simple, then it becomes something that is, you know, you really only have a

215
00:33:27.990 --> 00:33:38.850
Kip Twitchell: Developer needing to be added into an LP or that's a, you know, I'm not. I don't want to be so simplistic that we cut ourselves off from more sophistication, later on, but

216
00:33:41.100 --> 00:33:42.390
Kip Twitchell: I can take an inventory of what we

217
00:33:42.390 --> 00:33:46.350
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Can do now and what we need to do, you know, because you know there's DCM, you don't mean

218
00:33:46.560 --> 00:33:47.700
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): We used to use the same

219
00:33:47.700 --> 00:33:49.980
Kip Twitchell: All the time, because there was no license.

220
00:33:50.040 --> 00:33:50.490
And additional

221
00:33:51.510 --> 00:33:52.230
Kip Twitchell: CEOs.

222
00:33:53.730 --> 00:33:54.960
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): So, but yeah.

223
00:33:54.990 --> 00:34:05.910
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Yeah, then we can start thinking about how we can create a a live simulated environment that's air gapped out from the rest of the system.

224
00:34:08.610 --> 00:34:21.930
Kip Twitchell: And I think having this conversation in a technical steering committee on a bi weekly basis, you know, twice a month or something. It's a started down the road of doing that is what I'm thinking. Yeah, because it kind of broad

225
00:34:22.230 --> 00:34:36.960
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): And I'm working on the Education Project, too. And I think this would be great because you know we could come up with all kinds of things we need to do in the education systems. But unlike you said unless there's a hands on. You can't teach computer computing systems without computers.

226
00:34:38.040 --> 00:34:48.900
Kip Twitchell: Know, and we have new developers, we saw, you know, Fanny breezy and our group has just done a great job on outreach to new people interested in open mainframe projects as part of the summit and such.

227
00:34:49.650 --> 00:34:55.680
Kip Twitchell: And a number of those people coming in for LinkedIn New College people looking for jobs in this go over there.

228
00:34:56.730 --> 00:35:06.450
Kip Twitchell: You know, how do I, how do I grow experiment, how do I start by getting a login in place so that I can do something, it's a it's a real inhibitor

229
00:35:06.990 --> 00:35:07.710
Kip Twitchell: Yeah yeah

230
00:35:07.740 --> 00:35:09.270
Kip Twitchell: I agree. And, you know,

231
00:35:09.300 --> 00:35:19.470
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): The way I learned was made by getting on a system development system. And after we got our education, you would turn loose to experiment that's, that's how you got good at.

232
00:35:21.150 --> 00:35:31.350
Meredith stowell: So this is Meredith when I think that while they're there is a significant amount of introductory access to the systems that are that are currently available.

233
00:35:31.440 --> 00:35:31.860
Meredith stowell: So if

234
00:35:31.920 --> 00:35:34.020
Meredith stowell: You want to get started today, you can

235
00:35:34.110 --> 00:35:35.190
Meredith stowell: Go get your login and

236
00:35:35.220 --> 00:35:36.210
Try everything out.

237
00:35:38.250 --> 00:35:51.300
Meredith stowell: There is that need for once you get to the more intermediate and advanced levels of system administration specifically have this need for for that individual environment.

238
00:35:52.920 --> 00:35:54.360
Meredith stowell: If but if they want to get on today and

239
00:35:54.690 --> 00:35:55.770
Kip Twitchell: Try something they can

240
00:35:55.830 --> 00:35:57.930
Meredith stowell: They can do that today in multiple places and

241
00:35:59.220 --> 00:36:01.410
Kip Twitchell: So forth. Even little them entire cobalt

242
00:36:01.410 --> 00:36:03.510
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Application. Yeah, yeah, I think.

243
00:36:05.160 --> 00:36:11.610
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): It'd be good to add to identify the skills that you can do today, as opposed to what we still need work.

244
00:36:12.810 --> 00:36:19.530
Kip Twitchell: Yeah. And to that point. Meredith, many of those are very good because they're targeted towards specific learning tracks.

245
00:36:20.370 --> 00:36:34.080
Kip Twitchell: When I come at it from my experience mainframe developer, I got I'm in charge of education training for 100 consultants NGOs. Well, those, those people need experimentation spaces that they can

246
00:36:34.590 --> 00:36:37.620
Meredith stowell: Exactly. It's once you get beyond that. It's once you get beyond that.

247
00:36:37.680 --> 00:36:51.750
Meredith stowell: Okay. Now, I understand that. I understand that I have the basics. Now I want to go play. Beyond that, I think that's a good exercise to say here's what we have today where the, where the gaps and then what

248
00:36:51.960 --> 00:36:53.010
Kip Twitchell: what's feasible. What could we

249
00:36:53.010 --> 00:36:58.470
Matt Hogstrom: Do as I say, if you're if you're dealing with systems programming and you want to be able to

250
00:36:58.860 --> 00:37:06.780
Matt Hogstrom: Get that skill out there. You want something that they can basically shoot themselves in the foot quickly start over, as opposed to scheduling.

251
00:37:07.710 --> 00:37:07.980
Matt Hogstrom: You know,

252
00:37:08.250 --> 00:37:10.350
Matt Hogstrom: Image that might have other people

253
00:37:12.510 --> 00:37:16.980
Kip Twitchell: So, and you've spoken right to the Raspberry Pi philosophy.

254
00:37:17.070 --> 00:37:27.510
Kip Twitchell: Right. How successful with Raspberry Pi, because you can tear it down and restart when you when you go to the edge of things with experimentation enhancements on the edge of things where things are dangerous.

255
00:37:28.290 --> 00:37:33.810
Kip Twitchell: I'd like to have an L part dangerous that allows me to break it and throw it away. I'm trying again.

256
00:37:36.090 --> 00:37:36.720
John Mertic: So,

257
00:37:37.200 --> 00:37:39.510
John Mertic: I kind of just wondering on the steps forward here, what

258
00:37:39.510 --> 00:37:46.080
John Mertic: I think what I'm hearing is there's definitely interest in moving this forward in some form.

259
00:37:47.340 --> 00:37:59.910
John Mertic: You know, Kip is your brought it forward. I think you had it under the auspices of a project I'm just sort of wondering would you think the auspice of having a working group that is focused in this area is that sort of where your head's at. For maybe a next step.

260
00:38:01.110 --> 00:38:11.010
Kip Twitchell: I I'm open to the direction right I'm doesnt sit under the Geneva ERS project. It's a little too narrow. It's a little too broad for us to tackle in that space.

261
00:38:11.430 --> 00:38:23.040
Kip Twitchell: So I'm open to suggestions as to how we take this forward. But I do think there's a real need here. I think the discussion is useful, I think we could get others to in this discussion, because there is passionate around this.

262
00:38:23.910 --> 00:38:25.500
John Mertic: One. Yeah, I can definitely hear that

263
00:38:26.370 --> 00:38:30.390
Matt Hogstrom: Since marathon call one solution that would be

264
00:38:30.960 --> 00:38:43.620
Matt Hogstrom: I think would be a huge win would be if say IBM was able to say for educational open source purposes grant do and he already to run a license server.

265
00:38:44.340 --> 00:38:50.580
Matt Hogstrom: That had, you know, ended up to 15 specific whatever that number is right. That's, I could be variable is all configurable.

266
00:38:51.420 --> 00:39:03.120
Matt Hogstrom: And you took like a key route because the LF also owns x86 infrastructure to host those dr, eyes, nose, and then you would already have the basis. We started working it. I think if

267
00:39:04.200 --> 00:39:13.470
Matt Hogstrom: I think it's very doable to get z systems CPM and dedicated staff around that. But I think that's a longer pole in the tent.

268
00:39:14.010 --> 00:39:15.840
Matt Hogstrom: And you might spend more time trying to get that off.

269
00:39:15.840 --> 00:39:17.790
Matt Hogstrom: The ground. Well, let me

270
00:39:18.030 --> 00:39:25.200
Kip Twitchell: Let me your actor, though. One thing I do want to be careful of in this initiative is it. It is something that's easy for us to say

271
00:39:25.650 --> 00:39:33.810
Kip Twitchell: Would be great if IBM made public. The EOS systems available to everyone, but there are places today, murder, you know, other colleges and other

272
00:39:34.530 --> 00:39:47.220
Kip Twitchell: Service providers that are hosting some some open source projects today. So where I was trying to go on. This is, I would like to make it available for anyone that's willing

273
00:39:48.270 --> 00:40:01.920
Kip Twitchell: At some level, yes, there's the the PDT which would be one way of doing this, or the the D AMP T. But another one would be if someone has an unused map is very perishable.

274
00:40:03.180 --> 00:40:14.220
Kip Twitchell: And if there's capacity on machines at particular times and people are willing to dedicate some of that capacity. I'd like to make it so that it's available on for anyone to

275
00:40:14.700 --> 00:40:23.940
Kip Twitchell: Host these kinds of things we broaden the community that can support and dedicate the resources available to test if we do if we approach it that way.

276
00:40:24.840 --> 00:40:30.450
Matt Hogstrom: Yeah, maybe tainted tip. So you have to forgive me, we've been talking about this for almost two or three years now.

277
00:40:31.350 --> 00:40:46.560
Matt Hogstrom: And so far, I'm not sure how we shape the trees to get the resources. But so far, we haven't we haven't taken one of those perishable myths and gotten into the community, apart from Maris as a means of doing that.

278
00:40:47.190 --> 00:40:47.520
John Mertic: So,

279
00:40:47.550 --> 00:40:48.570
Matt Hogstrom: May I have another

280
00:40:50.160 --> 00:40:51.840
John Mertic: As I say, just in the interest of sort

281
00:40:51.840 --> 00:40:55.470
John Mertic: Of where the time is, it sounds like. Definitely. There's a lot of conversation here. And I have a

282
00:40:55.470 --> 00:41:04.470
John Mertic: Feeling this conversation could go on for quite some more time where I guess what I'm hearing is is the interest in forming a working group that would tackle this.

283
00:41:06.030 --> 00:41:15.630
John Mertic: Is that, is that something from the I see we have a quorum of voting TAC members, you know, Phil. Greg, Peter, Mark, Bob. Is that something you think would be a good step forward for this group.

284
00:41:18.300 --> 00:41:18.600
Gregory MacKinnon: What

285
00:41:19.140 --> 00:41:24.930
Gregory MacKinnon: It sounds like it but what, what would the outcome of the working group. What would the expect expectation be there.

286
00:41:27.930 --> 00:41:30.840
John Mertic: So if I look at them. Oh, go ahead. Tip. What would you

287
00:41:31.440 --> 00:41:38.370
Kip Twitchell: Think I would propose that we to coming up with the charter for an incubation project. Working Group maybe only a short lived thing.

288
00:41:39.210 --> 00:41:50.040
Kip Twitchell: But become a incubation project that we want to actually get the code. Here's what we want. I think on this show. Okay, so there's a code component to in addition to the resources component

289
00:41:50.040 --> 00:41:51.240
Kip Twitchell: Yeah. Yep.

290
00:41:51.630 --> 00:41:52.080
Good.

291
00:41:55.950 --> 00:41:57.600
Kip Twitchell: Greg. Does that answer your question. Well,

292
00:41:58.800 --> 00:42:00.090
Kip Twitchell: I guess, I guess, all I'm saying.

293
00:42:00.090 --> 00:42:05.610
Gregory MacKinnon: Is that I'd like to see where the work. I'm not saying there's not a good idea here. But I'd like to see where the working group, you know,

294
00:42:05.970 --> 00:42:14.280
Gregory MacKinnon: We know where it led what the outcome was, you know, before you know just just to explore and see where it takes us before we get ahead of ourselves in terms of

295
00:42:14.640 --> 00:42:24.930
Gregory MacKinnon: You know, going and incubation and stuff like that. So I. That's all I'm saying. I think the working group might be a good way to explore it and and and flush it out some and that that that the ideas and all that sort of thing.

296
00:42:25.800 --> 00:42:27.600
Kip Twitchell: So maybe as an action here.

297
00:42:27.720 --> 00:42:41.580
John Mertic: kip would be to maybe, you know, we can. I can help you coordinate some calls here or you know setting meetings with interested parties and part of that you could put together at least a little bit of the Charter of what the working group would be and then sort of come back to

298
00:42:41.580 --> 00:42:42.960
John Mertic: The tack at that point with that makes

299
00:42:42.960 --> 00:42:47.010
Kip Twitchell: Sense. Yeah, I could do that. But JOHN Let me just react here. Oh, sure.

300
00:42:48.390 --> 00:42:58.110
Kip Twitchell: That the you know the original death of the mainframe by one prognosticator was made it. He said it was gonna be turned off on

301
00:42:59.460 --> 00:43:07.710
Kip Twitchell: March 15 1996 well let's do something for March 15 2021 25 years later.

302
00:43:08.940 --> 00:43:13.500
Kip Twitchell: So let's do the working group for a couple months. And let's make our March meeting.

303
00:43:14.130 --> 00:43:28.230
Kip Twitchell: Have incubation project for how we're going to go solve this issue. Anyway, that's just an idea to put some energy behind it. We can do something to celebrate the continuing life of mainframe. And there's a lot here.

304
00:43:28.680 --> 00:43:29.940
What was the date of that, by the way.

305
00:43:31.200 --> 00:43:42.930
Kip Twitchell: It was March 15 1996 I'll Stewart Alsop predicted in 1993 the blast mainframe is going to be turned off and info world.

306
00:43:44.880 --> 00:43:51.060
Kip Twitchell: And an info world addition I have that on my blog entry didn't choose march 15 because of

307
00:43:51.120 --> 00:43:54.990
Peter Fandel: The day there was assassinated. I, I think it was an arbitrary

308
00:43:55.050 --> 00:44:05.010
Kip Twitchell: Date. It was part of a panel discussion. And unfortunately, I'd like to get I'd like to have an interview with the guy because he probably made a lot of other predictions. The word good

309
00:44:05.580 --> 00:44:22.560
Kip Twitchell: Unfortunately, his Wikipedia page only remember one of his career, and that was this decision this this announcement spur the moment right let's get him on on something, talk to him about that date and celebrate him in some way to say, man, I was wrong, the mainframe is continuing to live.

310
00:44:23.730 --> 00:44:25.440
Len Santalucia: Like a symbolism, I

311
00:44:25.620 --> 00:44:25.980
Len Santalucia: You know,

312
00:44:26.040 --> 00:44:27.570
Len Santalucia: We could almost call this project, the

313
00:44:27.570 --> 00:44:28.140
Phoenix.

314
00:44:29.850 --> 00:44:36.870
John Mertic: I mean, it's actually good because we are looking for a time to do our Q1 momentum announcement. So now you've given us a date kip that's

315
00:44:36.870 --> 00:44:38.640
Kip Twitchell: Great al

316
00:44:38.700 --> 00:44:47.520
Len Santalucia: L asap was also found in another article eating his words off the plate with a fork and spoon and play.

317
00:44:49.140 --> 00:44:56.580
Len Santalucia: A little short time afterwards when they when he finally found out the mainframes weren't going away, like you said on the date.

318
00:44:57.750 --> 00:44:58.230
Kip Twitchell: So,

319
00:44:59.070 --> 00:45:02.700
Matt Hogstrom: Here I've seen that he actually looks like junk le

320
00:45:03.960 --> 00:45:04.140
Matt Hogstrom: In

321
00:45:05.820 --> 00:45:15.090
Kip Twitchell: The 25 year anniversary, we should be doing something around while this is not going. This is not dying. This is living for a lot of years to come.

322
00:45:16.080 --> 00:45:16.650
John Mertic: Like that.

323
00:45:18.120 --> 00:45:21.600
John Mertic: So maybe we can get going and and I don't know if next week.

324
00:45:21.600 --> 00:45:23.430
Kip Twitchell: Is is a good timing.

325
00:45:23.490 --> 00:45:25.200
John Mertic: I can maybe get a doodle out today.

326
00:45:26.070 --> 00:45:39.900
John Mertic: To the open to the everyone in the NP technical list. And if you're interested in participating, you know, provide your availability and we can schedule it for next week. Does that is that time, good for timing kept moving forward.

327
00:45:39.960 --> 00:45:43.380
Kip Twitchell: Yeah, I'm, I'm ready to go. Okay, awesome.

328
00:45:45.810 --> 00:45:54.270
John Mertic: Awesome. Well, we will do that. Thank you so much for kicking us off. This is obviously a huge need in this community for a while and appreciate your leadership.

329
00:45:58.560 --> 00:46:09.780
John Mertic: Next on the agenda. This is some more of just updates. Um, there's the discussion of the Debian S3 90 X support a it

330
00:46:10.620 --> 00:46:13.440
Len Santalucia: I've not seen, too.

331
00:46:13.470 --> 00:46:21.300
John Mertic: Much movement here outside of the discussion in the last call. I don't know Ingo maybe, I don't know if you have any insight to where some of the stands.

332
00:46:23.580 --> 00:46:25.470
Ingo Adlung: And could you please repeat I'm

333
00:46:25.590 --> 00:46:29.010
John Mertic: Oh, my apologies. The Debbie and S3 90 X support.

334
00:46:29.700 --> 00:46:30.240
No.

335
00:46:32.070 --> 00:46:33.870
Ingo Adlung: We had been had been

336
00:46:34.950 --> 00:46:38.160
Ingo Adlung: Looking for back for feedback from the from

337
00:46:39.900 --> 00:46:41.640
Ingo Adlung: Canonical exec.

338
00:46:46.110 --> 00:46:46.290
Ingo Adlung: If

339
00:46:46.980 --> 00:46:49.830
Ingo Adlung: There was any response have you seen any

340
00:46:50.100 --> 00:46:54.150
John Mertic: I haven't, I haven't on my notes to I have a reminder to check in.

341
00:46:54.810 --> 00:46:56.580
John Mertic: On that thread. So maybe I'll poke at that

342
00:46:56.580 --> 00:46:59.370
Kip Twitchell: Thread as well and see what's going on. So,

343
00:46:59.430 --> 00:47:00.960
phil tully: Yeah, I didn't, I didn't see any

344
00:47:01.020 --> 00:47:02.340
phil tully: Emails either so

345
00:47:05.190 --> 00:47:06.540
phil tully: The day after that last meeting.

346
00:47:07.200 --> 00:47:07.500
John Mertic: Okay.

347
00:47:07.950 --> 00:47:10.770
John Mertic: Well, I will poke at the thread then and see what's going on.

348
00:47:13.830 --> 00:47:16.830
John Mertic: Uh, next on the list is tears decompress

349
00:47:16.860 --> 00:47:17.460
Len Santalucia: So,

350
00:47:17.520 --> 00:47:21.840
John Mertic: The good news is from speaking. I just got an email from

351
00:47:22.710 --> 00:47:25.530
John Mertic: Andrew, I think it was yesterday. Maybe the day

352
00:47:25.530 --> 00:47:28.470
John Mertic: Before that he is interested in taking over this project.

353
00:47:29.910 --> 00:47:35.040
John Mertic: And he's agreed to be the maintainer. And so we're going to work to help provide him.

354
00:47:36.360 --> 00:47:43.950
John Mertic: All of the maintainer access to the code. He's done a lot of work already. So a lot of his work. He just went to upstream and he has some ideas to drive it forward.

355
00:47:45.270 --> 00:47:55.560
John Mertic: Andrew is based in Australia, so I don't believe he's on the call today. I know this was sort of one of the questions on renewing the incubation. I don't know if the tack at this

356
00:47:55.560 --> 00:47:57.330
John Mertic: Point. There's a maintainer would want to

357
00:47:57.360 --> 00:47:59.730
John Mertic: renew the incubation. At this point, or would want to

358
00:48:00.270 --> 00:48:01.200
John Mertic: You know wait until

359
00:48:01.260 --> 00:48:05.070
John Mertic: A little bit of motion has happened after Andrew takes over.

360
00:48:06.690 --> 00:48:08.310
Matt Hogstrom: Just a quick question, though. Yeah.

361
00:48:08.430 --> 00:48:10.530
Matt Hogstrom: In a non voting member but is my input.

362
00:48:10.920 --> 00:48:20.940
Matt Hogstrom: How many candidates have been actually made for that project was originally moved over because this last time I looked at it, it had been moved and there hasn't been any activity.

363
00:48:21.300 --> 00:48:31.500
John Mertic: Exactly. That's this is sort of with the, the group had been sort of wrestling with is that same concern that it came in and then it, it kind of fell off the vine.

364
00:48:33.660 --> 00:48:40.560
John Mertic: And this is actually where it was about ready to find its way into an emeritus status.

365
00:48:41.010 --> 00:48:52.170
John Mertic: And then there was someone from the community that had rose up and said that they had done some work on it and they were potentially wanting to see if they could upstream pieces of it and and that's sort of where the conversation started.

366
00:48:52.260 --> 00:49:02.550
John Mertic: Of, you know if if that individual which was Andrew would want to consider taking over the maintainer ship and I know Ingo it connected some resources with him the background.

367
00:49:04.110 --> 00:49:05.970
John Mertic: Which was helpful to a degree.

368
00:49:07.140 --> 00:49:19.740
John Mertic: It's that's where it's at. But I guess the answer to your main question is outside of the initial commits, there really hasn't been but then we saw this individual raise up in the community and looking to do some additional work on here.

369
00:49:21.330 --> 00:49:27.780
Gregory MacKinnon: It is it is it possible like to sort of defer that you know renewal commitment until we see whether there is, you know, a sort of a

370
00:49:29.190 --> 00:49:31.620
Gregory MacKinnon: New infusion of energy here from

371
00:49:31.650 --> 00:49:38.850
John Mertic: Absolutely. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. I was just more raising it, it just if the tack wanted to make a decision, but that's that's certainly within the tax.

372
00:49:39.120 --> 00:49:41.610
phil tully: Asked, I don't think, I don't think we want to

373
00:49:44.400 --> 00:49:48.360
phil tully: Especially since we have to wait till he really takes over control.

374
00:49:48.870 --> 00:49:49.860
Gregory MacKinnon: Yeah yeah

375
00:49:51.180 --> 00:49:51.360
phil tully: Yeah.

376
00:49:54.300 --> 00:49:55.410
John Mertic: I think it's pretty reasonable.

377
00:49:55.740 --> 00:49:55.980
Yeah.

378
00:49:57.390 --> 00:49:57.840
Gregory MacKinnon: I think so.

379
00:50:02.760 --> 00:50:04.230
Matt Hogstrom: I don't know who Andrew is

380
00:50:05.400 --> 00:50:07.530
Matt Hogstrom: Is, is he a fellow member

381
00:50:09.120 --> 00:50:09.450
Matt Hogstrom: Four.

382
00:50:10.770 --> 00:50:24.870
John Mertic: I'm Andrew. So, his name is Andrew. Andrew Raleigh. He is with I'd have to look at my email. He's with a group and Australia.

383
00:50:27.660 --> 00:50:31.800
John Mertic: Good. If you have any more background, other than what I shared blackmail software.

384
00:50:33.420 --> 00:50:46.590
John Mertic: So I think it's a kind of a small outfit I think based out of Australia. I don't have any additional background on him personally. Other than that, other than he had reached out to the project to potentially upstream some code.

385
00:50:47.250 --> 00:50:56.130
Ingo Adlung: Because he was already in Australia that that explains that he did that stuff that he didn't attend any any meetings that I scheduled

386
00:50:57.390 --> 00:51:02.010
Ingo Adlung: But he didn't. He didn't remind me. That's, that's just was sitting in the middle of his night or so.

387
00:51:04.770 --> 00:51:12.870
Ingo Adlung: He should he should have connected with us going the other way over, over the pond instead

388
00:51:14.130 --> 00:51:14.970
John Mertic: Okay, yeah.

389
00:51:15.090 --> 00:51:15.720
John Mertic: Well, here's the

390
00:51:15.780 --> 00:51:18.450
John Mertic: Website here just of the organization. He's with

391
00:51:20.460 --> 00:51:23.100
Matt Hogstrom: Okay, so I just my my two cents.

392
00:51:24.180 --> 00:51:45.810
Matt Hogstrom: Is I'm reminded of a node project that got it was kind of done. It's used in software all over the world and the originator updated quite some time. And some guy offered to maintain it. And the guy said here gave him right access and over client. He deployed a bitcoin wallet fighter.

393
00:51:47.130 --> 00:51:55.110
Matt Hogstrom: That got deployed worldwide. It was basically all malicious code. I'm not saying Andrews and malicious guy, but I think

394
00:51:55.920 --> 00:52:07.290
Matt Hogstrom: Someone needs to be paired with him to. You don't just get a sense of who he is and what changes are going in, etc. So that we maintain kind of our due diligence in terms of quality of awkward.

395
00:52:08.280 --> 00:52:14.790
John Mertic: Absolutely, yeah. I mean, typically all the incubation projects. Do you have a sponsor from the tack that is involved.

396
00:52:15.540 --> 00:52:17.220
John Mertic: With each of the projects so

397
00:52:18.090 --> 00:52:22.890
John Mertic: I don't know if if somebody went to, you know, step for me, engage in that regard.

398
00:52:42.570 --> 00:52:52.170
John Mertic: And i don't know i i know the timezone situation doesn't work out great for you in Go. But I know you might have some of the better connections. I know you've already been on threads with him.

399
00:52:52.950 --> 00:53:03.780
Ingo Adlung: Oh, Australia, it's not a problem. Actually, I can, I can do easily in the morning, my morning hours and it's done. The afternoon in Australia. It's, it's, it's only more challenging to get

400
00:53:04.200 --> 00:53:07.620
Ingo Adlung: The US, Australia and Europe is in the middle.

401
00:53:08.340 --> 00:53:09.690
John Mertic: Oh, got it, got it. Okay.

402
00:53:11.490 --> 00:53:18.240
John Mertic: Well Ingo, would you mind working with Andrew and just kind of sort of being eyes and ears of the tack on this one.

403
00:53:20.640 --> 00:53:23.640
Ingo Adlung: Yeah, I can do so. OK. That'd be great.

404
00:53:36.300 --> 00:53:40.140
John Mertic: And hopefully, this doesn't turn into a bitcoin network.

405
00:53:43.980 --> 00:53:47.760
Matt Hogstrom: Comment on him. I just since we were using so much note and Zoe.

406
00:53:48.090 --> 00:53:56.400
Matt Hogstrom: Yeah, as a real huge concern of ours to ensure that all packages that we had were, you know, properly vetted, etc. And I think that

407
00:53:57.600 --> 00:54:03.960
Matt Hogstrom: I can actually find a link to an article about it. If you guys aren't familiar with it, but it was was incredibly disruptive to

408
00:54:04.530 --> 00:54:05.280
John Mertic: The local community.

409
00:54:06.360 --> 00:54:07.140
John Mertic: Yep, definitely.

410
00:54:07.290 --> 00:54:09.270
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): It was a great anecdotal example.

411
00:54:10.290 --> 00:54:10.860
John Mertic: Yes.

412
00:54:12.390 --> 00:54:16.680
Matt Hogstrom: Well, you can rely on me Bob to always come up with the most bizarre areas.

413
00:54:20.250 --> 00:54:21.990
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Next, you can find the article.

414
00:54:22.050 --> 00:54:24.180
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Man, I'd really like to read it.

415
00:54:24.420 --> 00:54:24.690
Maybe

416
00:54:26.130 --> 00:54:27.630
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): I'll show it to my students to

417
00:54:28.290 --> 00:54:32.070
Kip Twitchell: Show them the pitfalls of open source sometimes

418
00:54:33.120 --> 00:54:33.660
I hope

419
00:54:35.100 --> 00:54:38.730
John Mertic: I hope that project that didn't have a CI best practices badger else that broke the

420
00:54:38.730 --> 00:54:38.970
Host

421
00:54:42.840 --> 00:54:43.710
Matt Hogstrom: Will find out

422
00:54:43.950 --> 00:54:44.550
Yes.

423
00:54:46.170 --> 00:54:48.300
John Mertic: Last meet item on the agenda, we go to some project.

424
00:54:48.300 --> 00:54:50.550
John Mertic: Updates on the enabling GitHub actions for own

425
00:54:50.550 --> 00:55:01.080
John Mertic: P hosted projects, the one big hang up. I think that was on here from before was the ability to

426
00:55:02.490 --> 00:55:04.560
John Mertic: Leverage the GitHub secrets.

427
00:55:05.580 --> 00:55:18.150
John Mertic: As a part of a pull requests coming from a fork, and I believe we tracked down a fixed to that and communicated that out to the fail long team.

428
00:55:18.840 --> 00:55:26.160
John Mertic: And I think from I understand that was one of the last blockers, at least in the GitHub actions point. But I also know Mike in

429
00:55:26.850 --> 00:55:35.640
John Mertic: My present acre and kip I know both of your projects have been using this to a degree, don't see Jerry on the line. I don't know if you have any updates on where any this stands

430
00:55:37.710 --> 00:55:38.370
Mike Friesenegger: I just

431
00:55:40.260 --> 00:55:48.780
Mike Friesenegger: And I don't as well. Either the person within failing project DOESN'T JOIN didn't join today, so I don't have an uptick but I'll send them an email.

432
00:55:49.320 --> 00:56:00.840
John Mertic: Okay, yeah, it would be good just to see a little bit where we're at. And maybe I can, we can help sort of close the loop and even get a little bit of a documentation together for other projects that might be looking down the same path.

433
00:56:05.100 --> 00:56:16.440
John Mertic: So last but certainly not least is around a pot project updates. We have about a little over 10 minutes or so left here. Maybe we could do just a quick around the room here.

434
00:56:17.640 --> 00:56:22.560
John Mertic: Will start in the incubation and start with the a's and B2C. Is there any I'd see Joe is on the line.

435
00:56:22.980 --> 00:56:25.350
Joe Bostian: Yeah. Um, so we

436
00:56:26.430 --> 00:56:38.580
Joe Bostian: We only had one TASC meeting in November, for the project at that one. We accepted a new a new proposed sub project.

437
00:56:39.600 --> 00:56:41.070
Joe Bostian: To do some work.

438
00:56:42.300 --> 00:56:58.800
Joe Bostian: To to map control blocks using Markup Language. Um, I just created a repository for that recently and there's going to be a pull request for that soon. So we'll see some code that that comes into the project for that on the horizon. There's a new tool.

439
00:56:59.310 --> 00:57:03.480
Joe Bostian: that someone's going to propose it the next meeting about

440
00:57:04.200 --> 00:57:17.820
Joe Bostian: That's oriented around handling bite order problems and source code. So I look forward to seeing you know what that's all about and how that works. So, and that's kind of the activity and in the project for that.

441
00:57:19.350 --> 00:57:24.750
John Mertic: Awesome. That's awesome. That sounds like some things are coming together there. Any questions for anybody that

442
00:57:27.450 --> 00:57:32.880
Matt Hogstrom: Is part of what you said, Joe, just go to the Google doc and add your update their fantastic

443
00:57:33.450 --> 00:57:33.720
Okay.

444
00:57:37.980 --> 00:57:51.810
John Mertic: Right, we don't have anyone from the Adam project on the line. I don't believe we have anybody from the CB T tape project on the line, either a. Do we have any rep buddy representing the Cabal Programming course.

445
00:57:59.250 --> 00:58:05.640
John Mertic: For the education. I know I received an update via email from

446
00:58:06.810 --> 00:58:11.220
John Mertic: Lauren Valentini and I can share that with the group as well here.

447
00:58:12.300 --> 00:58:21.210
John Mertic: Her note here was that they're moving forward, they've had some productive community meetings and they're working on a Phase one of just sort of topics that are needed.

448
00:58:22.080 --> 00:58:30.210
John Mertic: And they're hoping to start sharing these out with the community in the next couple weeks. I know, Bob, you're been a part of those meetings. I don't know if there's anything you wanted to add

449
00:58:34.680 --> 00:58:36.930
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Oh no, where we've been making some headway.

450
00:58:38.610 --> 00:58:45.480
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): I've been having problem attending the last couple because read into semester but I'm on the hook for adding those topics to the

451
00:58:47.010 --> 00:58:51.540
To get help. So that'll be forthcoming in the next couple of weeks, like you said,

452
00:58:53.580 --> 00:58:57.570
We meet weekly so it's it's hopefully now that

453
00:58:58.620 --> 00:59:01.350
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): The semester is over. I'll be able to spend a lot more time on

454
00:59:05.580 --> 00:59:06.330
John Mertic: Any questions.

455
00:59:06.390 --> 00:59:06.900
On that

456
00:59:09.930 --> 00:59:13.140
John Mertic: Alright, next is failing Matt or Mike. Sorry.

457
00:59:13.710 --> 00:59:14.190
Mike Friesenegger: No problem.

458
00:59:14.580 --> 00:59:20.490
Mike Friesenegger: Today, exactly. Hi, everyone. Might freeze an anchor. So we had a fail on call today.

459
00:59:21.360 --> 00:59:42.540
Mike Friesenegger: Actually we today was a great day we demonstrated the developer environments. So if I come infinity has donated some of their Z infrastructure and we have to second levels, the VM Southern ones environments guests that are running in there's EBS environment.

460
00:59:42.930 --> 01:00:00.480
Mike Friesenegger: And and we have failed long running and interacting with the directory and demonstrated that today. So now it's now let's open up the floodgates and let developers request access and and start being able to commit or

461
01:00:01.470 --> 01:00:08.700
Mike Friesenegger: Contribute to the failing project. So that's where we're at. And our next call is really to talk about those next steps of how developers can can

462
01:00:08.730 --> 01:00:09.810
Mark K Post: Get involved and

463
01:00:09.810 --> 01:00:12.300
Mike Friesenegger: Start utilizing this infrastructure.

464
01:00:13.860 --> 01:00:17.550
John Mertic: It's fantastic. It's been a long time coming. I knows that's fantastic to hear

465
01:00:18.060 --> 01:00:19.170
Mike Friesenegger: Yes, it is. Thank you.

466
01:00:20.220 --> 01:00:22.560
John Mertic: Any questions or comments from the group.

467
01:00:26.490 --> 01:00:28.230
John Mertic: Alright, next Geneva ers.

468
01:00:30.990 --> 01:00:35.100
Kip Twitchell: I'm going to turn it over to Randall here from our team to do the updates.

469
01:00:35.580 --> 01:00:36.720
Kip Twitchell: Oh, thank you. Yeah.

470
01:00:37.170 --> 01:00:38.130
Randall Ness: Hi john so

471
01:00:38.880 --> 01:00:41.430
Randall Ness: So in the last month. We've had a

472
01:00:41.490 --> 01:00:45.450
Randall Ness: Big achievement with our development for our workbench component

473
01:00:46.080 --> 01:00:58.620
Randall Ness: We've been able to get that up and working with a Postgres database, which is part of our migration away from IBM centric type tooling like DB too, but over towards more open source type tool.

474
01:00:58.950 --> 01:01:09.330
Randall Ness: So that's been a big success and we've now got that working with Postgres on people's individual systems. Now the next step is going to be working with Postgres on a shared system.

475
01:01:10.170 --> 01:01:21.660
Randall Ness: But that's working very well, you know, we now currently have attracted five non IBM to our group, which is a good thing for becoming an open source type team.

476
01:01:22.350 --> 01:01:39.660
Randall Ness: These are people coming in from various different areas. One of them we met through the open mainframe summit a couple months ago. So that was good and things are progressing well we're getting a good shared environment. So I think we're making good progress.

477
01:01:40.680 --> 01:01:41.490
Randall Ness: Fantastic.

478
01:01:41.520 --> 01:01:42.150
Randall Ness: That's great news.

479
01:01:42.180 --> 01:01:45.720
John Mertic: Great to hear any questions or comments from the group.

480
01:01:50.370 --> 01:01:50.940
John Mertic: Excellent.

481
01:01:51.270 --> 01:01:53.820
John Mertic: Jerry could not join us today for probably. Secondly, he was

482
01:01:53.820 --> 01:02:00.990
John Mertic: Also going to do a demo of some functionality. So we'll have that hopefully on the 14th as well.

483
01:02:02.370 --> 01:02:07.500
John Mertic: Software discovery tool. Um, I know Elizabeth out, but I don't know Joe if you have

484
01:02:07.500 --> 01:02:08.550
John Mertic: Anything to share their

485
01:02:08.580 --> 01:02:11.250
Joe Bostian: Yeah i well i just i noticed this week.

486
01:02:11.700 --> 01:02:18.900
Joe Bostian: Usually, well I just noticed this week that we didn't have anything on the calendar for a meeting for that. So I'm going to try to set something up for next week for

487
01:02:18.900 --> 01:02:19.620
Randall Ness: Anybody who

488
01:02:20.430 --> 01:02:21.180
Randall Ness: Is interested

489
01:02:21.240 --> 01:02:28.320
Joe Bostian: But we'll just check point and see what our current statuses and figure out what the next steps are awesome. Awesome. Thank you.

490
01:02:29.040 --> 01:02:29.580
Yes.

491
01:02:32.400 --> 01:02:38.670
Len Santalucia: Randall Geneva ERS are all your user IDs and passwords all taken care of. Now,

492
01:02:40.140 --> 01:02:43.950
Randall Ness: User IDs and passwords are all set for the mainframe system.

493
01:02:45.060 --> 01:02:46.590
Len Santalucia: And I get. And I guess also

494
01:02:46.590 --> 01:02:48.420
Randall Ness: The VPN ideas as well.

495
01:02:49.440 --> 01:02:51.840
Randall Ness: Still waiting on the Linux instance

496
01:02:56.340 --> 01:02:58.080
Kip Twitchell: Very helpful when thank you again.

497
01:02:58.680 --> 01:02:59.610
Len Santalucia: Oh, you're welcome, guys.

498
01:03:00.720 --> 01:03:04.440
Len Santalucia: And just on on behalf of Jerry john

499
01:03:06.360 --> 01:03:17.610
Len Santalucia: Jerry had along all getting all of this working. It was quite challenging. But it's all working and that's why you want to demonstrate it today. Jenkins for z.

500
01:03:18.270 --> 01:03:28.740
Len Santalucia: Is going to be hot stuff. So he's, he was going to do it today, but he had a work item pop up. So we're pulling piano postponed till next time.

501
01:03:30.330 --> 01:03:31.530
Peter Fandel: No worries. I think we're all excited to

502
01:03:31.530 --> 01:03:33.390
John Mertic: See that for sure. Yeah, yeah.

503
01:03:33.930 --> 01:03:35.550
Len Santalucia: And you know your buddy over at

504
01:03:36.720 --> 01:03:37.500
Len Santalucia: Your colleague

505
01:03:39.030 --> 01:03:39.450
Len Santalucia: In

506
01:03:40.950 --> 01:03:41.490
Len Santalucia: The

507
01:03:43.140 --> 01:03:47.070
Len Santalucia: It group at the Linux Foundation at wanted Jenkins. Do you remember his name.

508
01:03:49.590 --> 01:03:51.300
Randall Ness: Is

509
01:03:51.450 --> 01:03:51.780
John Mertic: Mike

510
01:03:51.930 --> 01:03:54.330
Len Santalucia: I know you were on the original. Yeah.

511
01:03:54.900 --> 01:04:00.570
John Mertic: It might have been either Andrew Andy Greenberg or Eric

512
01:04:02.130 --> 01:04:02.880
John Mertic: One of the two

513
01:04:04.080 --> 01:04:04.410
John Mertic: Might have

514
01:04:06.870 --> 01:04:09.870
Len Santalucia: Access to it. Yeah, that would be great. I will

515
01:04:10.050 --> 01:04:12.930
John Mertic: I will let them know maybe just connect all the dots on an email.

516
01:04:13.110 --> 01:04:23.910
Len Santalucia: Thread in case they want to see more. Yeah, that's great, one of the driving factors to getting networking. I don't want to hold you up any more because we're running out of time. Go ahead. No, no worries. No worries. Um,

517
01:04:24.630 --> 01:04:27.690
John Mertic: Move forward here we have Alexander from the Tessier

518
01:04:27.690 --> 01:04:28.530
John Mertic: Project so

519
01:04:28.560 --> 01:04:29.940
Peter Fandel: Outside, are you going to give a quick update

520
01:04:31.050 --> 01:04:34.380
Alexander Efremkin: Oh yeah, sure. Um, so we are moving through the

521
01:04:35.790 --> 01:04:51.360
Alexander Efremkin: Incubation checklist and trying to find people who would want to represent DCA and steering committees and we also had a little bit of a hiccup for the presentation because for their press release. Sorry.

522
01:04:52.770 --> 01:04:53.280
Alexander Efremkin: Because

523
01:04:55.050 --> 01:05:09.120
Alexander Efremkin: We are trying to get management approval for the maybe specific audience or even just over that. So I'm not sure how would it go for a press release for these quarter, but I hope that we will resolve that soon enough.

524
01:05:10.710 --> 01:05:17.910
John Mertic: I just heard context that we're planning to do our final momentum press release next week.

525
01:05:19.110 --> 01:05:24.630
John Mertic: where we'd be announcing Tessie as a project and also some new project members and then

526
01:05:25.080 --> 01:05:28.980
John Mertic: Some momentum updates and a few of our projects such as mentorship.

527
01:05:30.000 --> 01:05:33.390
John Mertic: And we'll share that out with the technical community directly as well.

528
01:05:36.390 --> 01:05:41.520
Ingo Adlung: Hey Alex, this is it goes. So if you've got any any any approval hiccups, just let me know.

529
01:05:42.540 --> 01:05:43.080
Alexander Efremkin: Okay, thank you.

530
01:05:44.370 --> 01:05:49.980
Len Santalucia: Hey john yeah when you do the newsletter. Are you able to

531
01:05:54.150 --> 01:05:54.810
Len Santalucia: State.

532
01:05:55.860 --> 01:06:02.790
Len Santalucia: In it, the groups of the projects that are now open for

533
01:06:04.710 --> 01:06:06.660
Len Santalucia: Volunteers and contributors and so on.

534
01:06:09.030 --> 01:06:10.860
John Mertic: Yeah, we could definitely make calls out

535
01:06:10.860 --> 01:06:16.350
John Mertic: For if projects have things that they would want us to share out and we're absolutely happy to

536
01:06:18.540 --> 01:06:25.380
Len Santalucia: Okay, so we could ask the Fei long you know Mike here and Randall and Jerry

537
01:06:26.730 --> 01:06:29.040
Len Santalucia: To give you some verbiage to

538
01:06:30.120 --> 01:06:33.120
Len Santalucia: Put in the newsletter on their behalf or something.

539
01:06:33.330 --> 01:06:34.530
John Mertic: Yeah, I'd be happy to.

540
01:06:35.490 --> 01:06:46.350
Len Santalucia: Yeah, they, I think that would be a good way to because I think a lot of people are starting to subscribe to that I'm sending a lot of people. That way we are, we have a pretty big subscription.

541
01:06:46.350 --> 01:06:56.580
John Mertic: List, and we've got a lot of interest and even people responding to me directly, which is pretty good. So yeah, by all means, if any projects. Do you have plenty to work on that.

542
01:06:57.390 --> 01:07:06.690
John Mertic: And have something kind of maybe in the next week timeline. So if you have anything you would want me to include on behalf of one of your projects. I'm happy to do that. It's pretty

543
01:07:08.400 --> 01:07:09.030
Len Santalucia: Long Mike

544
01:07:09.360 --> 01:07:12.270
Mike Friesenegger: I will. I'm already. Yep, by making a note of it right now.

545
01:07:13.230 --> 01:07:17.160
Len Santalucia: Boy, boy, Randall you for Geneva ers.

546
01:07:22.560 --> 01:07:27.510
Len Santalucia: Randall Randall. Okay. And I'll talk to Jerry about Polly stuff.

547
01:07:29.280 --> 01:07:31.020
John Mertic: That's fantastic. Thank you. And great idea.

548
01:07:31.950 --> 01:07:32.130
Hey,

549
01:07:33.810 --> 01:07:35.370
Peter Fandel: Quick question, so I'm

550
01:07:36.420 --> 01:07:36.810
Ingo Adlung: I'm

551
01:07:37.140 --> 01:07:39.060
Peter Fandel: I'm not sure. So if

552
01:07:39.150 --> 01:07:40.470
Ingo Adlung: If the announcement.

553
01:07:41.280 --> 01:08:01.170
Ingo Adlung: Is something that is an old P announcement. I'm not sure why it would require any IBM legal approval at all it was. I joined a pretty if it was a child announcement, then the guess, I guess it needs to go through the IRB process as well but but if, if, if the geeky open sourcing as

554
01:08:01.170 --> 01:08:01.860
Ingo Adlung: Such as

555
01:08:01.890 --> 01:08:04.560
Ingo Adlung: It's approved in IBM and it is just about

556
01:08:05.670 --> 01:08:16.710
Ingo Adlung: A an announcement text. And I think the team should be able to provide you something on which is then which then requires your approval, but not IBM

557
01:08:18.030 --> 01:08:24.090
Alexander Efremkin: Yeah, that is exactly the question that we asked our product owner Holger and

558
01:08:25.410 --> 01:08:27.000
Alexander Efremkin: He wasn't really sure that

559
01:08:27.240 --> 01:08:28.650
Alexander Efremkin: We can do it, or like

560
01:08:28.710 --> 01:08:37.350
Alexander Efremkin: Ourselves. So I wanted to go to upper management and describe like how's it going, Where's it going and what should be done.

561
01:08:37.830 --> 01:08:41.820
Ingo Adlung: Yeah, so, so feel free involving me I can help you. Certainly. Yeah.

562
01:08:41.850 --> 01:08:42.750
Peter Fandel: Thank you very much. Yeah.

563
01:08:44.220 --> 01:08:55.470
John Mertic: Yes, and it is no MP announcement, just like all the normal one. So yeah, if you can help. They're going to be great. I know we're right at the hour here, but maybe one quick a 32nd zero

564
01:08:55.530 --> 01:08:56.790
John Mertic: And then maybe a

565
01:08:57.330 --> 01:08:59.280
John Mertic: couple seconds mentorship and Zoe.

566
01:09:02.700 --> 01:09:04.080
John Mertic: Oh, maybe hearing. If you're on the line.

567
01:09:05.820 --> 01:09:10.020
Hiren Shah: Yeah, I wasn't, I wasn't mute side but that so Zoho a new update

568
01:09:10.590 --> 01:09:14.010
Hiren Shah: John had a couple of tech meeting, but no show

569
01:09:14.580 --> 01:09:29.850
Hiren Shah: So I'm still wondering how we can get the traction on that like polycephalum is is probably another project that that might be related to what we are doing in zero, but I don't have any attendees in my tech meeting. Okay.

570
01:09:30.270 --> 01:09:32.310
John Mertic: All right, well, maybe, maybe we can do this a topic.

571
01:09:33.060 --> 01:09:34.380
Mark K Post: And try to help out there.

572
01:09:35.340 --> 01:09:38.670
John Mertic: I'm Bob, do any quick updates on mentorship.

573
01:09:39.030 --> 01:09:39.870
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Well, actually I got

574
01:09:40.980 --> 01:09:43.440
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Yeah, I do. I need a call for help here too.

575
01:09:45.180 --> 01:09:47.310
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): So we're getting ready to start up the

576
01:09:49.290 --> 01:09:55.980
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Organization of the summer internship. One of the things that's going to be different this year is we're going to coordinate the

577
01:09:55.980 --> 01:09:58.680
Peter Fandel: Om P mentorship timetables and

578
01:09:59.010 --> 01:10:06.570
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Process to the rest of the Linux Foundation and take advantage of their marketing. So the applications are go out the marketing will be this.

579
01:10:06.900 --> 01:10:16.290
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Go out at the same time, they also have some training for mentees and mentors will take advantage of. And we'll also manage their timelines, which are pretty similar. It's a little shorter.

580
01:10:16.920 --> 01:10:25.080
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): The one thing that we want to do this year also that's different is we want to have a brainstorming session sometime in January, I think, January 15

581
01:10:25.530 --> 01:10:37.050
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Has been thrown out. And the idea here is to get projects let let the mentors and mentees potential mentors and mentees kind of discuss different topics.

582
01:10:38.310 --> 01:10:39.210
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): To come up with

583
01:10:39.270 --> 01:10:41.040
Peter Fandel: The projects dynamically

584
01:10:41.100 --> 01:10:41.580
Peter Fandel: So that

585
01:10:41.820 --> 01:10:42.630
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): We get the

586
01:10:43.200 --> 01:10:50.340
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): mentors and mentees involved early together and it also as you're doing that she'll be able to figure out what mentees and

587
01:10:50.490 --> 01:10:51.810
Kip Twitchell: Mentors work well together.

588
01:10:52.110 --> 01:10:53.820
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): So what I'm looking for right now.

589
01:10:54.360 --> 01:11:07.470
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): And I need this pretty quickly is 10 topics. So for instance, Zoe, or maybe some other topics under Zoe, and I need someone to lead those discussions. So the idea here is we will have a dis an event.

590
01:11:08.220 --> 01:11:14.820
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Brainstorming event and will have ROOMS WHERE WILL are areas where we'll be able to put different people.

591
01:11:15.840 --> 01:11:26.520
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): In the different topics, leading the topics and we'll record that so we can then have those for people who can't meet make the event in there. We want to have a short description.

592
01:11:26.550 --> 01:11:27.990
Kip Twitchell: Someone to lead the discussion.

593
01:11:28.080 --> 01:11:29.010
Kip Twitchell: For that topic.

594
01:11:29.580 --> 01:11:40.560
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Identify, you know, other edge areas where they can get education students can get education in our mentees are like podcasts or videos or readings or sometimes the badges.

595
01:11:40.560 --> 01:11:41.070
Peter Fandel: Or anything

596
01:11:41.580 --> 01:11:42.030
Kip Twitchell: So,

597
01:11:42.510 --> 01:11:43.800
Please, please, if you

598
01:11:45.150 --> 01:11:58.710
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Have ideas for topics. When we can develop projects and then you may have projects that you bring to this thing to as part of the discussion to see if we get mentees and other mentors involved so

599
01:11:59.160 --> 01:12:04.980
Matt Hogstrom: What those projects. But Bob and GitHub, or you have a Google Doc or how job.

600
01:12:05.250 --> 01:12:08.850
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): I'll tell you what, I will, I will send out a link with

601
01:12:08.910 --> 01:12:10.320
Peter Fandel: For Google or

602
01:12:10.350 --> 01:12:13.740
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): One of those two after this meeting, so that we can collect that.

603
01:12:14.790 --> 01:12:16.980
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): So I'll get that to you.

604
01:12:18.240 --> 01:12:20.520
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Will have access to the Minutes after this to

605
01:12:21.990 --> 01:12:22.590
John Mertic: Yes.

606
01:12:22.710 --> 01:12:23.070
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): Okay.

607
01:12:23.430 --> 01:12:25.110
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): I put that in the medicine.

608
01:12:26.460 --> 01:12:27.960
Kip Twitchell: Man Thank you. Awesome.

609
01:12:28.710 --> 01:12:35.550
John Mertic: Awesome. Thank you. And if anybody's interested in on the working meetings or 11am Eastern on Monday. Just ping me I can add you to the invite.

610
01:12:37.980 --> 01:12:39.480
John Mertic: And I know we're over time here but I

611
01:12:39.480 --> 01:12:41.490
Matt Hogstrom: Comment anything that

612
01:12:43.200 --> 01:12:44.820
Kip Twitchell: I was just gonna say, I think.

613
01:12:45.120 --> 01:12:52.620
Matt Hogstrom: You know, Kip is going to start kicking off this, how do we get things set up to provide some infrastructure, but I think

614
01:12:53.130 --> 01:13:01.860
Matt Hogstrom: That could actually be a project. It's not necessarily associated with existing project. Yeah, it's a whole set of work that has to be done. Well, this might be a really good opportunity.

615
01:13:01.980 --> 01:13:02.550
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): I think that's

616
01:13:02.820 --> 01:13:10.110
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): I think I was thinking the same thing that and actually, it doesn't have to be associated necessarily with projects. So we've had things like Blockchain

617
01:13:10.650 --> 01:13:11.280
Matt Hogstrom: Projects.

618
01:13:11.310 --> 01:13:27.480
Bob Dahlberg (VCU): And things like that. So anything anyone has a passion for please provide that as a topic. And if you want to leave that that discussion, that'd be great because I, you know, we want to get the students are the mentees and the mentors. Get, get the passion and the

619
01:13:28.020 --> 01:13:29.580
Len Santalucia: You know juices flowing

620
01:13:32.670 --> 01:13:39.510
Peter Fandel: Alright, so let's first of all let's go over these projects in reverse order. Every, every month, next time we over, you know, a

621
01:13:41.130 --> 01:13:50.910
Peter Fandel: Good idea. Thank you. I was gonna. One thing I was gonna say just very quickly on Zoe, is that if you're interested in running Zoe on Docker.

622
01:13:51.630 --> 01:14:11.400
Peter Fandel: We do have a pre release version, not in the community build yet, but we are looking for feedback if it runs fine on X86 and Linux on Z not yet on the CX but be looking for for full Docker support in the next quarter or two coming from so

623
01:14:14.070 --> 01:14:17.520
John Mertic: Awesome, great news. Great stuff to close on here today.

624
01:14:19.260 --> 01:14:33.810
John Mertic: I want to thank everyone for your time today. Sorry. We ran over. I hope you all have a wonderful holiday season and hopefully we're all taking some time off. And I just want to thank the tack and all of you for the amazing work in this community. We just about double the number

625
01:14:33.810 --> 01:14:35.760
John Mertic: Of projects, again this year, which is

626
01:14:35.790 --> 01:14:47.820
John Mertic: A fantastic achievement. And it's all thanks to the hard work and the everyone in these communities. I just want to thank everyone and I look forward to a great 21 and we'll be back together on the 14th.

627
01:14:52.200 --> 01:14:52.620
Len Santalucia: Thank you.

628
01:14:53.070 --> 01:14:55.470
Len Santalucia: Happy holidays everybody days.

