Meeting notes from the TSC held on April 27th, 2021. 
All interested in GenevaERS development are welcome to join.

## Conference call details

Join Zoom Meeting
https://zoom.us/j/94966206199

Meeting ID: 949 6620 6199

## Minutes

### Issue 125, What a demonstration of Geneva Might Look Like
Purpose of the 3 minute video is to show the difference functionality that would pique someone's interest. This functionality is listed in the issue. Michael should be able to pick a view that meets the examples in the issue.

We want the user to be able to install and run the views without having to learn anything. Training data will be used for the video and demo. The data contains a customer file, customer names, product items, and product files. Neil has a program to create more data. This could be provided as part of the demo package to allow users to generate more volume.

As Michael was not in the meeting, Andrea will discuss what is being asked and if he can have a script created by the next TSC meeting in two weeks

It would be nice to be able to compare the GenevaERS performance to other approaches such as COBOL and java.

### Issue 26, Powerpoint templates for videos
Kip can put what he has been using for the videos in the Community repo

### Issue 122, JCL Development for Initial Code Release
Randall has some concept / ideas and he is getting close to working with Bob on the build process and demo download issues

### Issue 120, Git Workflow
Remaining action item is for Andrea to add information under How We Work that we will use branching for contributing. People who work for a company that tracks open source contributions may fork a repo.

This item will not be completed until the GenevaERS website has been stood up on a Linux Foundation Wordpress instance

### Issue 96, Website Content Constraints
Kip can make the powerpoints used for the training videos available in a central location. Andrea will add the link to the Google drive for Kip to copy the content there

### Issue 118, Review status for Full Project Approval
John and Kip went through the checklist
The "application" to request becoming an active project is to get on a TAC agenda

### Linux setup at Vicom
The postgress database is setup and waiting for a version of the workbench that export / import from a postgres database


### Issue 98, Documentation Approach
Outstanding items
* Clarifying the MIT license - Kip will take this item
* Some 3rd party items need to be removed

### Misc
* A downloadable compiled version of SAFR is already on the IBM / IBMSAFR GitHub repo. Functionality that will be put in the GenevaERS repo is a non-commercial version of the performance engine and the postgress version of the workbench

* We still do not have visibility into the work that remains for the demo. Our JIRA instance does not have the Roadmap feature enabled. The roadmap would allow for drill down capability into the Epics, etc. Kip asked Bob to open an issue and this is something Sandy could work on as she has a working relationship with whomever supports JIRA for the Linux Foundation