# Meeting notes TSC 2023-08-01 6pm Pacific Time (US)
All interested in GenevaERS development are welcome to join.
## Conference call details
### Zoom Meeting
https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/95522057563?password=a2cb4656-98bd-4f6e-9d48-2998457acf72
## Administration
- The description of what GenevaERS could be improved on https://genevaers.com
  - **Randall will bring some examples to the next meeting.**
- What do we want to accomplish before our annual OMP review in August? 
  - Publish repos in public GitHub
    - Workbench
    - Run-Control-Apps
    - Performance-Engine 
    - Performance-Engine-R-and-D
    - DevOps (PE build process) [will hold off on this one until Java MR91 is finished]
  - Anything else?  
    - Last year, one of our goals was to get a committer who was not associated with IBM or an IBM client?  
        - Has Karl agreed to become a committer? 
          - **Neil will check with Karl by next week.**
  - Should we remove the requirement for reviews on repos with source code? 
    - This would allow developers to move more quickly. 
    - If we as a team didn't like the change, we could remove it after the fact. 
      - **Andrea will check to see if this is a requirement.**
## Run-Control Apps
- Do we need a Java version of GVBVDPNL? 
  - What's the minimum we can get by with?   
  - **Ian will replicate the features of the C++ VDP Analyzer in Java.**
## Workbench
- Ian will give a demo of the Workbench build process 
## Infrastructure
## Performance Engine
## Potential users (who may want support)
## Demo
## Documentation
- "A document a week, that's all we ask" 
## R&D Work
## Conferences 
- Possible presentation at the Winter SHARE conference 
## For next time 
